
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
The author of this book, (Late) Prof. K.S.Krishnamurti was born on ist Nov 1908, at Thiruvaiyaru in Tanjore District, 
 Tamilnadu. Atter his successful schooling, he had graduated. from St...Joseph College, Trichy in the year 1937. He came to chennai in 1941 and joined Government Service as Sanitary 
 Inspector.
During this period, he developed an interest in occult science. 
 He studied in depth, the available literatures on Indian as well as 
 Western Astro-Science. He observed that the predictive principles enunciated in those books, are very general, ambiguous and full of alternatives and even if properly applied, never pinpointed precisely the nature and time of event in question. It was quite evident in the case of twin births where the two natives, have different physical features, character, education, profession, married life, longevity etc., The prediction given came true to one of them but totally failed in the case of the other though the horoscopes were exactly the same. Further he was distressed to note that, this devine and noble science handed down by our saints and sages, had fallen, in course of time into the hands of some unworthy and incompetants, resulting in disbelief and ridicule of Astrology as superstition. This prompted him to vow himself to find a solution to make Astrology a perfect science, revive its fair name and reputation and restore it's importance and utility to mankind. 
 He started collecting numerous horoscopes including twin biiths for study and analysis. He spent more than tE.:ri years in research work and finally succeeded in discovering an unique formula of his own, which can be applied universally to Natal / 
 Annual | Horary horoscopes, to predict events very accurately. 
 He verified his new found ‘Stellar’ and 'Sub' theory for its accuracy, by appiying it on various horoscopes including twins and got fully convinced himself. He titled his discovery as ‘Krishnamurti Padhdhati’.
At this juncture, in 1951, he was fortunate to receive an idol of 'Lord Uchishta Mahaganapathi' from His Holiness 
 Sankaracharya of Kamakoti, Kanchi Mutt. Inspired by the blessings of Jagadguru and divine graces of Uchishta 
 Mahaganapathi, he started vigourously to transmit the fruits of his research and knowledge to all, unmindful of criticisms about his theory, voiced by a few.
To fulfill his aspirations, he took voluntary retirement from service in 1961 and undertook long journeys to all parts of India and propagated his findings. He delivered lectures daily for two weeks at the North Indian Cities, Junar, Poona, Kirkee, Kolhapur, 
 Sholapur, and Ahmednagar, in response to wishes of number of 
 Astrologers there. A few from Bombay, Kasipet, Busaval and other far away places came to Delhi to attend his lectures and stayed for months to learn his unique technique. He became very popular and famous. Finding his method, scientific, convincing, clear and very correct , more and more people approached him for Astrological counselling and they were flabbergasted by his quick, accurate and uncanny predictions.
To make further development and research on his system, 
 Sri K.S.K. established "Modern Stellar Astrological Research 
 Institute" at Madras. In 1963, he started publishing a monthly magazine, "Astrology and Athrishta" to spread his system not only in India but also in many countries of East and West.
Convinced by his scientific explanations, and uncanny prediction, Kulapati K.M. Munshi. Chancellor of Bharatiya Vidya 
 Bhavan, appointed Sri.K.S. Krishnamurti, as visiting professor of 
 Astrology in India, to deliver lectures regularly at Delhi, Bombay and Madras and occasionally in other kendras. They also honoured him by conferring the title \Jyothish Marthand' with a gold Medal, through Dr. P.V. Cherian, the then Governor of 
 Bombay.
In June 1970, he visited Kuala Lumpur on being invited by ‘The Malayan Astrological Society’ which conferred on him the tite “Sothida Mannan’ with a gold medal. He stayed there for
about 6 weeks and delivered lectures at various places. He visited 
 Sri Lanka in November 1970, to fulfill the wishes of the people there.
Sri K.S. Krishnamurti had written and released six books styled “Krishnarnurti Padhdhati Readers’ (including 'Horary 
 Astrology’ and “Gocharapala Nirnayam') in which he has explained exhaustively his principles and methods of predicting any event very accurately. In spite of his eminence, he was very simple in his thought and living.
After passing away of 'Guruji' (as Prof.K.S.K. was then called with reverence) in March 1972, his son Sri K. Subramaniam, who was groomed by his father, took over the editorship of ‘Astrology and Athrishta. He has successfully run the magazine till 1994, afterwhich, it has been converted as 'Yearly' instead of ‘Monthly’. 
 Further with a view to propagate the K.P. System effectively, he established his own Publication company by name ‘Krishman & Co' at Chennai, through which he is publishing not only Prof. K.S.K's readers periodically but also many books written by himself and by other eminent present day 
 K.PAstrologers. (The list of which is exhibited elsewhere in this book). Release of some more research oriented books on K.P. is on the anvil.