If that point which rises in the east, which is called ascendant happens to fall.
(1) In that sub, Lord of which is the significator of the ascendant itself, it indicates whether one can maintain good health or not; One can resist against infectious disease or not; 
 One can come out successful in his efforts or not; whether one's younger brother will gain; mother can command the esteem of others, Children will have higher studies or go overseas; or make long journey; wife or competitors or partner will meet with any adverse results -any danger to their lives, etc.
(2) If the sub lord of the Ascendant is the significator of the ascendant and second house, one gains money; enters into service or increases his bank position. Benefit accrues through industrious activity.
(3) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of the ascendant and 3rd house, one has good mental development; gains more knowledge by making frequent short journeys; attached to brothers, neighbours, etc. relatives are also useful and helpful.
(4) If the sub lord of the Ascendant is the significator of houses 1 and 4, one has good education, studious, gains through estates, mines, etc. will be benefited by ancestral property ; may entertain occult investigations.
(5) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of houses 1 and 5, one has much delight in sports, speculation and pleasurable pursuit. One will be much attached to children.
(6) It the sub lord of the Ascendant is not only the significator of lagna but also that of 6th house, one will have sickness; susceptible to infection; Resistance very poor, recuperation takes times; Will not attend to laws of hygiene; One will always have
pets; One will be attached to maternal uncle; servants, servant maid etc. Wins litigation, election, etc.
(7) If the sub lord signifies 1 and 7, public enemies disappear. there will be union; partnership; one will have honefit through wife or partner; one would like to be always in the midst of other sex, There will be marital happiness.
(8) If the sub lord is the significator of 1 and 8 one will meet with danger. There will be accident and injury. One can have legacy, or entangled money or gratuity, bonus, insurance, share of profit, arrears of pay, etc. One will accumulate money; do business for others; There will be occult experiences; mediumistic.
(9) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of 1 and 9, one likes his father, loves loi;i2 journey; will have psychic experiences, be religious - philosophical; higher thought subjects; graduates may get doctorate; one likes science and research; one may have prophetic dreams; gains through brother. In-law or wives relatives.

(7) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator or 1 and 10 houses, one does meritorious deed, held in high esteem:
 One will have honour, award, prestige; one can come to the front of the public and be popular; will rise to a high social and professional position. There can be no indignity, no dishonour but high ambitions, very auspicious for business and to be a statesman.
(8) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of 1 and 11, large profits; large number of benefactors. One will assist others and also be assisted by friends; enjoys one life: failure out of question Cure to disease, speedy recovery and taking prophylactic medicines preventing diseases, are promised. 
 Hopes and wishes will be fulfilled. Marriage to children; Prosperity and satisfaction.
(9) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of 1 and 12, there will be enough of troubles, jealousy, secret inimical
activity, sorrows, everywhere hindrance and thereby impediments. Liking to study occult science. Practise Yoga, go to unfrequented place; prefers isolation: even for minor ailment hospitalisation: there is the danger of imprisonment. One will be the cause of his own undoing: one will be a victim for being cheated, swindles, etc. guard against treachery, conspiracy, etc. one believes in Purchasing and investing money than to keep in bank.
If the sub lord of the 2nd cusp is the significator of 1 and 2 then the native will be finding it easy to make money by his personal efforts; he will serve or do business and try to increase his bank position. If the sub-lord of 2 is the significator of the houses 1, 2 and 6 one enters into service or it should be significator of 10 without being the significator of 7. If the significator of the 2nd cusp is the significator of the houses 1, 7 and 10 one does business. If the sub-lord is the significator of 1, 2 and 12 and is connected with Sun or moon or Venus one loses his vision. If connected with Saturn one suffers from tooth ache. 
 If Saturn and Moon are connected then one's mouth will be foul smelling and he will have pyorrhoea.
If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of the second and the third, one can gain through education. writing. publicity, Publication, journalism, brothers, colleagues, neighbours and by taking up agencies, commission business, touring, salesman, representative, short tours etc. But to younger brother there will be loss. This sub-lord is very lucky to one's children.
If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of the second and the fourth house, then one gets estates and money as inheritance and one will be anxious to own buildings, houses land, mines, etc. One gains by such investments. One is successful in his own place. permanent place of residence. automobile, transport, etc.
If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of 2nd and 5tn houses, one gains through music opera, cinema, pleasant
al..asement, sport; entertainments, through younger people and children. This planet will prove to be very lucky to children and, mother.

If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the sign ii:;cator of the houses 2 and 6. one makes profit in any transaction. One can have enough of overdraft facilities; come out successful in the election and gain. One can deal with pet animals, poultry, public health departments, medicine, all humanitarian service, gains through labour and labour department. This is also very good to one's children.
If the sub-lord of 2nd cusp is the significator of 2 and 7 one gains through partner in business or by marriage, one makes good profit in contract business and in any manner dealing with others, Success in litigation. One re9,,:ns seniority, enemies meet with danger, slightly good to children.
If the sub-lord of the second is the significator of the houses 2 and 8 one can gain, by legacy, Insurance bonus, gratuity or by will. If the. same planet is the significator of the 9th house one loses money due to bank failure. But if this is the significator of 1!, gain is a certainty. Children make fortune in their own place and possess property.
If the sub-lord of 2 is the significator of 2 and 9 one makes money by export, and import by publication of books, by making long journeys, by contacting foreigners, or by discovering some 
 Improvements and by patenting the same, One gains through religion, temples, churches, science, relatives of partner, etc. 
 Speculative gains to children.
If sub-lord of the 2nd cusp is the significator of the second and the tenth house, one makes steady progress, ever prosperous, gets into Government service, or under taking any business, has honours, awards, increase in reputation, success in all undertakings, Children get into service or come out successful in competitive examination or election or litigation.
If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of the houses 2 and 1 1 one makes money without much effort, gains without pains, through speculation; friends oblige. There will be accidental fortune like lottery where the investment is the minimum and the gain is substantial. Equally it is lucky to children to gain by business or win in litigation. 
 If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of 2 and 1 2, one can make money by serving in a sanatorium, asylum, hospital, occult investigations, circus, jails, etc.; not good to children. 
 Thus one is to find out to which house a planet is the significator and calmly judge what it can do.
