(KRIsHNaMuRTI SYSTEM )

 DIVISION OF ZODIAC : The Zodiac is divided into twelve equal parts; each division is called a Solar mansion (or Rasi or
 Sign)
 They are Aries,
 Taurus, Gemini,
 Cancer, Leo, Virgo,
 Libra, Scorpio Gao
 Sagittarius,
 Capricorn,
 Aquarius and
 Pisces.

 The Hindus have another division also. The Zodiac is divided into twenty seven equal parts, each measuring 13°-20’. They commence from Aries 0° and end by Pisces 30°. The 27 divisions are called
 Lunar Mansions (Nakshatras, Asterisms, Stars Constellations).
 They are called Ashwini, Bharani, Krithigai, Rohini...
 Uthrapathrapada and Revathi.

 The expla- nation that | can offer why they have taken 9 planets and divided the
 Zodiac into 27
 Nakshatras is as follows :-

 The Zodiac is 360° in Longitude.
 What is the sanctity in the
number 360. Probably, Sun moves in between the stars, in its path the Ecliptic - daily on a average about 1/360° of the circle. So, every day in 24 hours Sun moves 41°. Further, 360 is divisible by 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 when it will be easy for other calculations. It is first divided into 3 equal parts of 120° each. The four signs Aries, Taurus, Gemini and Cancer make up 420° in the segment AEL. The next four signs Leo, Virgo, Libra and Scorpio form 120° and they are in the segment LES;
 Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces are the last 4 signs in the segment SEA measuring 120°.
(Ais Aries 0°, S is Sagittarius 0° and E is earth.)

 All planets moving from the point A (Vernal Equinox) Aries
 Mesha according to Nirayana System-get their results modifiec as they move in the Zodiac. In the first 13°-20’ i.e. 0 degree tc 13°-20' and planet transiting in Mesha (Aries) will be influencec by Kethu, and the constellation is called Ashwini. Then when it passes on, between 13°-20' and 26°-40' Venus influences it; this area is called Bharani. Between 26°-40' and 30° of Aries and 0°

 Taurus to 10° Taurus, the planets results will be modified by Sun.
 Karthigai is the name of the star, or constellation which | call as
 Zone. Then from 10° Taurus to 23°-20’ Moon modifies the results ofthe planet occupying this Zone or Lunar Mansion called Rohini.
 Between 23°-20’ in Taurus and 30° Taurus as well as 0° Gemini to 6°-40’ in Gemini, the mansion called Mrigasirisha is ruled by Mars and the planet in this Zone will be under the control of Mars.

 The next 13°-20’ called Arudhra, is governed by Rahu; next
 Punarvasu is ruled by Jupiter (Guru). It is followed by Pushya and Ashlesha governed by Saturn and Mercury respectively.

 Similarly, from Simha 0° (Leo) upto the end cf Scorpio, the four sings are divided into 9 lunar mansions (called Nakshatras,
 Stars or Constellations). They are called Makam, Poorvapalguni,
 Uthrarpalguni, Hastham, Chithrai, Swathi, Visakam, Anuradha and
 Jyesta which are ruled by § planets in the same order, viz. Kethu,
 Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars (Sewvai, Mangal, Angaraka, Kuja) Rahu,
 Jupiter (Guru), Saturn (Sani) and Mercury (Budha).

 The remaining 1/3 of a Zodiac SA contains the 4 signs
 Sagittarius, Capricorn, Aquarius and. Pisces and the nine constellations in it are Moolam, Poorvashada, Uthrashada,
 Sravana, Dhanishta, Sathabisha, Poorvapathrapada,
 Uthrapathrapada and Revathi. The planets Kethu, Venus, Sun,
 Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Mercury rule the stars in the same order.

 Hence, planets in between 0° and 13°-20' in Aries (Aswini), 0° and 13°-20’ in Leo (Makam), and 0° and 13°-20' in Sagittarius (Moolam) will be under the sway of Kethu; 13°-20’ in Aries to 26°- 40’ (Bharani), 13°-20' in Leo to 26°-40’ (Poorvapalguni;) 132-20’ to 26°-40' in Sagittarius (Poorvashada) these three zones are ruled by Venus and Planets transitting in these zones are under the influence of Venus and the results of Venus will be offered by the planet, transitting in this zone.

 Thus, each planet governs three zones in the Zodiac.
{fa planet, were to be in Aswini, another in Makam and the third in Moolam, all are under the influence of Kethu and are in
 Kethu’s zone. If the astrologer says that a planet is modified by the lord of the constellation, Kethu, then the statement is not complete and clear. He has to add, whether it > in Aries, or Leo, or Sagittarius, otherwise one cannot locate the position of the planet correctly.

 Suppose a father has three sons Brahma, Vishnu and Sive presume that each son has nine children and every son gives the same order of names. Rama, Baratha, Lakshmana
 Sathrugna, Dharmaputhra, Bhima, Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva
 The first issue of all three are called “Rama”, the second issue © each of is called “Bharatha” and so on, and the last issue c each of them will be “Sahareva”. If a postman has to deliver letter with the address Rama atune, how can he exactly fix up t which Rama it refers. The moment he calls out Rama, thre
 Ramas will respond. Instead, suppose alll the 27 children a given different names, like Aswini, Bharani etc., how easy itis identify.

 Similarly, instead of calling each lunar mansion as Keth (Aswini), Kethu 2 (Makam), Kethu 3 (Moolam), Venus 1 (Bharar
 Venus 2 {Pooram), Venus 3 (Pooradam), and so on, or as Ket in Mesha-Aries, Kethu in Simha-Leo, Kethu in Dhanus (Sagittarit and so on; the ancients gave different names to all the 27 st: (27 zones of 43°-20' ) commencing from Aswini and ending
 Revathi.

 They were aware that the stars are not equally elongat from 0° to 13°-20' and then another from 13°-20' to 26°-40' a s0 on. The Zodiac does not give the appearance of a circu wheel made of a cane with 27 rings in it. But the Zodiac is imaginary pathway inthe heavens. 360°in length and 15°in wic with stars scattered all over, in and outside the Zodiac, and ti stars appear as dots and not rods. The constellations select by our sages are either a group of stars or any single bright st so that they can be first identified easily.
A few of them are in the Zodiac itself but the majority of the groups are around the constellations which are named after these groups. These stars (constellations) may be very close to the 27 divisions of the Zodiac or far away, and they may be either to the
 North or to the South of the Zodiac. A few groups are very near and in the next constellation and yet they are chosen because they can be identified easily and they will be useful for reference and calculation to locate where a particular constellation would commence and end in the Heavens; further, there is no other constellation within or near the zone which can be unmistakably identified. Therefore, these 27 stars are to guide us, so that we can calculate and ascertain the position of the 27 zones in the
 Zodiac, each measuring 13°-20’.

 These 27 constellations are governed by the 9 planets.
 Hence, each planet rules over three zones at an interval of 120° (e.g.) KETHU — Aswini, Makam, Moolam, VENUS (Sukra) -
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam and so on.

 These zones modify the results of the planets transitting the
 Zodiac and not the stars, scattered in the Heavens which are far, far away. Planets are the immediate neighbours of our Mother
 Earth and these belong to one family. Probably this is the reason why they have selected only 27 groups of stars even though there are numberless stars in the sky which can influence the earth as much as these 27 groups.

 Suppose (a) there is a light in the centre of a circular room provided with 12 glass panes of different colours (b) around the room there is a verandah and outside it, there are 27 glass panes of which the colour, 1, 10 and 19, is the same; 2, 11 and 20 differ from 1, 10, 19 but these three are of the same colour; 3, 12 and 21; differ from others but these three of the same colour as they belong to one group. Similarly, all the 27 panes are of 9 different colours.

 If a person walks outside the circular verandah looking at the light inside, he will find the colour of the light getting changed according to the colour of the coloured panes. Similarly, the
results of the planets are modified by the lord of the sign and indicated by the lord of the Nakshathra or constellation.

 If a planet is compared to a torch light then the influence of the sign — Solar Mansion occupied by it and the influence of the
 Zones of 13°.20’ called stars, change the colour of the light.
 Suppose a railway guard shows the light, It may be plain or green or red according to the background mirror.

 Similarly, imagine that the mirror used behind the bulb is the lord of the sign. It may be clear and it may illuminate to a maximum or it may be dull rendering the light, weak. The strength and modification of the colour depends, on the mirror behind the bulb (which is the reflector) which denotes whether a planet is exalted and strong or debilitated and weak.

 Also suppose one coloured slide is inserted between the torch light and the observer this colour depends on the lord of the constellation “C” when ‘P’ is the planet (which is the bulb).

 Therefore, the results of a planet in different positions in the
 Zodiac, in different signs and different constellations, is similar : to the light from the torch getting modified and the resultant becoming absolutely kierent from the original light, unless all the colours are similar to that of the planet.

 In my researches, | found that one should not satisfy himself with the modification of the lord of the constellation alone. But one has to find out further subdivisions, which should be scientific, so that one can explain the differences between twin births.
 So | have divided each star in a manner which will be explained shortly. Suppose, we do not subdivide, then we offer
 Prediction taking into consideration, the situation of a planet ina
 Particular sign and star. It will be similar to saying that a particular dasa of a person will be brilliant. The dasa lord may be Venus. It will run for 20 years. Even, though, in general, these 20 years might have proved to be beneficial, yet there would have been occasions when he could have had difficulties, trials and tribulations also, but these difficulties when compared to the beneficial results, may not be much. It may be similar to a person being foretold that he would gain in a race on a particular day.
 No doubt he may lose in the first race, lose in the second, gain in the third, again lose in the fourth and gain in the last few races.
 When we calculate, we may find that he had gained on that
 Particular day. But consider his anxiety whenever he lost, especially in the first two races. It is similar to taking a planet, the sign and the star in which it was and Passing judgment. But according to “Krishnamurti System” it will be possible to say that he will gain at @ particular time and also conclude that it is a day of profit. This method of forecast is not merely advantageous, but correct and convincing as well.

 Suppose a person is told that during Venus Dasa, he will be fortunate. No doubt during Venus Dasa, Venus Bhukthi he gets married. Venus dasa Sun Bhukthi he starts business; Venus dasa,
 Moon Bhukthi he goes Overseas; Venus dasa, Mars Bhukthi he has a son, Venus dasa Jupiter Bhukthi there is expansion in the business and he has another child. During Venus dasa, Saturn
 Bhukthi there is some labour trouble and minor losses. In Venus dasa, Mercury Bhukthi he Opens branches, takes up agencies and during Venus dasa, Kethu Bhukthi he visits various pilgrim centres. On the whole, no doubt, the person get married, started business, went overseas, expanded business and stabilized it.
 Also, one would not forget that he had lost a member of the family, had labour trouble, suffered some loss and had worries for some time. If a person is informed that in these 20 years,
 Venus will cause Rajayoga it will not help him much. But indeed,
it would be useful only when he is informed both; the time of event and also the nature of event, both good and bad. So, the dasa of 20 years is subdivided into subperiods otherwise called bhukthis.

 On the same analogy, | established that the division of a constellation was necessary if correct results are to be forecast.

 Suppose a person is informed that he will have very good business and profit on a particular day, he feels depressed till 2
 PM.., as there was no business till then and in these hours he loses his faith in astrology; but the planets so adjust that a few marriage parties enter his shop and make purchases from him for an amount much greater than what he had been normally collecting daily. If the same astrologer could tell him that only between 2 and 4 PM; on that day he would do excellent business, would have been advantageous for both. So, the subdivision of the constellation are an imperative necessity to predict exact time of event.

 Again, as a result of intensive research, it has been possible to find out why a person receiving a few letters on a day ina particular moment, feels very happy when he goes through the contents of a latter, next feels dejected and depressed when he reads the other, gets irritated when he goes through the third and so on. It was found that the Ascendant and the cusp of the houses move faster than the planets and it is the ascendant and the cusp of the houses which explain such rapid changes, though the relative position among planets and their occupation of the star and sub remain the same.

 The ascendant can move in a sign for about 2 hours but ina constellation, it can only be for about 50 to 58 minutes. But certain events may happen within an interval of 10 or 15 minutes.
 Therefore, there should be some other minute factor which brings about varying results in a very short time. So it was found that the ascendant in that constellation (Star) showed that he would receive letters. But to indicate which moment he would read a pleasant letter, which moment he would read a letter which would
irritate him and so on, further divisions of the constellation was necessary. This method was found to be convincing and scientific.

 Let us take another example. Suppose, we judge the results according to the transit of the planets. It is generally stated that
 Saturn while transitting the 1 1" house will produce most desirable results.

 Saturn will be passing through the 11" house, roughly for a period of two and a half years. Saturn signifies certain matters to the person according to his chart and only such of those matters alone will be expected by him. It is not uncommon (1) that for a long time after the entry of Saturn into the 11" house, the person continues to suffer and is not able to reconcile (2) some actually suffer all the time whereas they enjoy when Saturn transits in the 12" sign. When Saturn is in 11, what actually one will enjoy or experience depends on the lord of the constellation and the lord of the sub, according to Krishnamurti System and this would explain why the general rule fails.

 First of all, | would like to say emphatically that all persons having Saturn in 11 cannot expect favourable results because the ascendant may be different and the lords of the constellations in the 11" house may be ruling evil houses to that lagna-born.
 Thereby the person will experience difficulties through the source indicated by Saturn (the transiting planet). But, according to my technique, when Saturn is passing in a constellation, throughout that period, he neither enjoys nor suffer uniformly but during certain periods he finds beneficial results compensating for the difficulties. The method which | advocate will prove to be very correct and it can never fail; because, | take the subdivision of the constellation. The constellation indicates the matters signified by its lord; the planet transiting influences such results denoted by the lord of the star through the source denoted by the transitting planet (by nature, lordship and occupation) and it is the sub-lord which decides whether the result is favourable or unfavourable. The lord of the constellation is similar to the lord of a dasa of the Vimshothari system, whereas the sub is the lord
of the subperiod or Bhukthi. So, | have evolved a method to divide the constellation based upon the sound principle of astrology, which will appeal to one and all.

 In Aswini, the first sub is allotted to Kethu, the second to
 Venus, the third to Sun, the fourth to Moon and so on till the last sub is given to Mercury. Aswini is ruled by Kethu. So the first sub is allotted Kethu.

 Suppose Moon enters a particular constellation, say Bharani (the second star of the 27 stars), the longitude of which extends from 13°-20' to 26°-40' of Aries (Mesha) and a child is born at that moment. What do we say? Is it not that the child is to run
 Venus dasa and it will have 20 years of Venus dasa left over at the time of the birth? The child is having Venus dasa, Venus
 Bhukthi at the time of the birth. If moon moves a little further, say 1° (i e 14°20" in Aries - Mesha), we say that the child has a balance of 18 years 6 months and also that the child will have
 Venus dasa, Venus Bhukthi at the time of birth. But, wnen Moon has moved 20/120 of Bharani and a child is born then, we say that the child has a balance of 16 years 8 months and that the child is having venus dasa, sun bhukthi just starting. If moon further moves by 16/120 of the star, we say the child will be having
 Venus dasa, Mars Bhukthi. Moon moves further by 7/120 of
 Bharani. So, Mars sub is also over; Rahu sub-starts. Let it go on. When it completes 18/120 of this star, Rahu sub is over and
 Jupiter starts. Thus it will be seen that the Moon is influenced by the exact position which it occupies in the constellation.
 Therefore, Moon in the beginning is under the sway of Venus and the sub of Sun. Next it passed in the same constellation belonging to Venus but to the sub of Moon. It is followed by the sub of Mars, then by Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury, and lastly by Kethu. So according to Krishnamurti System each constellation is subdivided into 9 parts. They are not equal in the longitude but the longitude of each sub is in the proportion in which they are allotted the total number of years in Vimshothari dasa system.
The longitude of each constellation is 13°- 20’ equal to 800 minutes. Therefore, in every constellation of 800 minutes each planet will have an area equal to the number of years allotted to each in the dasa multiplied by 67/, minutes (800/120). Therefore, Sun's sub extends to 40 minutes (6x6’/,) whatever be the constellation. Mars and Kethu extend for 46?/, minutes (7x6?/, ). Moon extends for 1°- 6-40", Saturn 2°-6'-40”, Rahu extends for exaclly 2°. Jupiter has an area of 1°-46'40", Mercury 1°-53’-40”, Venus 2°-13'-20”.

 Eventhough the area allotted to each planet is the same in each
 Star, yet the order in which they occupy the constellation differs. To note the order, one has to find out which planet rules the constellation, then the beginning of the constellation is used by the lord of the star, just like in any dasa, the first sub period or bhukti is ruled by the dasa lord. The second sub is ruled by the Bhukti lord who will follow the dasa lord.
 Then in the same cycle order the subs will be ruled as in the bhukthi.

 If the star is Karthika, note the lord of the star. Itis Sun. Hence, allot the first sub to Sun. In the cyclic order, who will follow Sun? It is Moon. So the second sub is given to Moon, the third to Mars, the fourth to Rahu and so on, till the last sub is governed by Sukra.

If the star is Punarpoosam, otherwise called Punarvasu, the first subdivision is governed by Jupiter; next by Saturn and the last by Rahu.

 If the star is Pushya, the lord is Saturn. Therefore, the first sub is governed by Saturn, the second sub is ruled by Mercury, the third is allotted to kethu and so on till the last sub is under the sway of Jupiter.

 If the star is Ashlesha, otherwise called Ayilyam, the first subdivision is governed by Mercury, the next by Kethu and so on, till the last subdivision is allotted to Saturn.

 Thus all the twenty seven stars are divided among the nine planets. It may appear as though the whole Zodiac is divided into 27 multiplied by 9 parts. Actually, the lord of the sign, the lord of the star and the lord of the sub will be 249 instead of 243, due to the change in the sign iord (lord of the sign), as certain subs are found in 2 adjacent signs. (Furthermore one can sub divide and record the results. This is for research students)

 A few stars are called in different terms. They are: 1. Krithik - Karthikai
- Mrigasira — Mrigashirisha . Arudhra — Thiruvadhirai
 Punarvasu — Punarpusam

 Poorvapalguni — Pooram — Pubba
2 3. 4. 5. 6. Uthrapalguni — Uthram 7. Anuradha — Anusham 8. Jyeshta - Kettai 9. Poorvashada — Pooradam 10. Uthrashada - Uthradam 11. Sravana - Thiruvonam 12. Dhanista — Avittam 13. Sathabisha - Sathayam 14. Poorvapathra — Poorattadhi 15. Uthrapathra — Uthrattadhi

 The other 11 stars are called by the same name.
CONSTELLATIONS AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
(Each star is divided into 4 equal divisions. Each partis called either pada or quarter =3°-20'. Half of a star = 6°-40’. When a constellation commences in one sign and extends in the next succeeding one, it is mentioned as ‘a’ and ‘b’. The numeral number given for each star is the number of the star in the 27 constellation starting from Aswini)
1. Aswini : 0° Aries to 13°20’ Aries (Mesha). The first constellation. The sign Aries is ruled by Mars and the constellation is governed by Kethu. Hence, this zone indicates the following matters in general.

 Fart of the body: Head, Cerebral hemispheres.

 Diseases: \njury in the head, congestion in the brains, thrombosis, cerebral anaemia, faintings epilepsy, violence, spasms, severe headache on any one side, neuralgia, coma, trance, cerebral haemorrhages, paralytic stroke, insomnia, malaria, meningitis, smallpox.

 Mental qualities: Avarieous, extravagant, worried about landed properties, brother’s ailment, dispute with brother,
 Partition, black magic, can pray Lord Ganesh or Subramanya or
 Narasimha or Anjaneya. (Will be fond of Ornaments, lovely in appearance, liked by all, clever and intelligent).

 Profession: Service in factory, police, military, medical, surgery, criminal courts, jail, railways, machinery, iron, steel, copper (Commandants, Physicians, Attendants, horses, horse-riders, horse-dealers, horse-groom, handsome persons as traders).

 Does not contribute to child birth unless Kethu happens to be a benefic to the /NDIVIDUAL. May induce abortion, surgical aid for fertility but mostly remaining barren. When strong benefits form favourable aspects, the evil results will be warded off.

 When one runs Mars Dasa Kethu Bhukthi or Kethu dasa,
 Mars Bhukthi, the matters signified by Mars and Kethu to that native will materialize when either of them or either of the luminaries transit in the Zone. Sun will transit in this area between 14" April and 27" April every year. Moon will transit on Aswini star once in 27 days.
2. BHARANI : 13°-20’ Aries to 26°-40’ Aries (Mesha) the second star. Sign ruled by Mars, Star governed by Venus.

 Part of the body : Head, Cerebral hemisphere, organs within the head, eyes.
Diseases : \njury in the head, mostly in the forehead and just around the eyes, cold venereal distemper, syphilis affecting face and vision, catarrh in the head, moisthumours, mucus, reins afflicted, weakness due to gratifying one’s tastes and pleasurable emotions in dissipating habits.

 Mental qualities : Chain smoker (Mars Venus.fiery sign) (Tobacco cultivator) — mind, always fond of pleasure, enterprises, aspiring, amorous, avaricious,-(cruel men, those that feed on blood and flesh, slayers, low-born persons, cudgellers, huskgrain and wanting in character. Will carry out his purpose to the end, will be truthful, free from malady, clever and happy).

 Profession : Makes money through pleasure, sports, music or musical instruments, art advertisement, show display, exhibition, silver utensils, eversilver, silk, mobile, automobile, fertilizer, industry, railway, factory, wrestler, cinema theatre, studio, mansion for marriage, animal husbandry, veterinary doctor, slaughter house, tea or coffee estates, caterers, hotels, restaurants, criminal lawyer, judge, leather manufacturer, skins and hides, building contractors, engineer, those who assess and pass orders, revenue department, surgeon, maternity, venereal expert, optician, agriculturist.

 Whenever one runs Mars dasa Venus Bhukthi or Venus dasa
 Mars Bhukthi, then the matters signified by these two planets will materializes, when either of these planets transit-in this zone or in Mrigasira first half or Chithrai second half or Venus star Mars sub or Mars star Venus sub : Also when the luminaries Sun and
 Moon transit in these areas, one can enjoy those results. Sun will transit between 27" April and 10" May every year, and Moon transits in Bharani constellation once in 27 days.
3. A. KARTHIGAI 18™ QUARTER : 26°-40' Aries to 30° Aries
 Sign owned by Mars and the star by Sun.

 Part of the body : Head, eyes, brain, vision.

 Diseases : Sharp fever, malaria, filaria, plague, smallpox, wounds, cerebral meningitis, brain fever, injury, cuts, accident, explosions, carbuncle, fire accident.
Menial qualities : Normally robust health, good strength, great enthusiasm, push-up, go ahead spirit, militant temperament, leading nature, commanding appearance, competitive mind, argumentative ability etc. (will eat much, will be drawn to other peoples’ wives, will be ebullient in appearance ana iamous).

 Profession : Acquisition of lands, buildings or possession of patrimony, bold punter, dauntless, escalator, military, police, industry, medical, surgical, navy (Moon in this position or a planet in this star and Moon Sub) Defence department, travels, resignation, retirement, manufacturing chemicals, bombs, crackers, explosives, match boxes, iron and steel utensils, war material (Saturn in this area makes one listless and rapid. He will never amount to anything. But Mars in this area promises that the person will not hesitate to fight at the drop of his hat, especially, when Mars is in between 28° — 26'4C" and 29°-6’-40”, i.e. Mars
 Sing, Sun Star and Mars sub). (Brahmins and particularly those performing daily Agnihotra, reciters of sacred hymns, white flowers, grammarians, barbers, miners, priests, astrologers, potters and those who know the sacrificial rules).

 If one runs Sun Dasa Mars Bhukthi or Mars Dasa Sun Bhukthi, what results these two planets indicate to that person, will be enjoyed when either of them transit in Karthigai 1* quarter. Sun will be there between 10" May and 13" May every year. It is most likely that this sub period which will run only for 4 months and 6 days may be in the other months. In such cases Sun will transit on the day of enjoying the result in Mars star Sun sub or Sun's star Mars Sub. This is applicable to similar circumstances. If one expects a promotion during Sun Dasa Mars Bhukthi or Mars
 Dasa Sun Bhukthi, though the period runs for 126 days, one can pitch up the exact date as mentioned above.
3. B. KARTHIGAI 2, 3 AND 4™ QUARTER : 0° to 10° Taurus (Rishaba). Venus is the lord of the sign and Sun is the Lord of the star.

 Fart of the body : Face, neck, larynx, tonsils, lower jaw, occipital region.
Diseases ; Pimples, cuts, reddish eye, eyesore, throat troubles, tumours in the knees, quinsy, swelling above neck polypus of the nose.

 Mental qualities : Aways fond of company, sociability, hospitality, pleasure, comfort, luxury, generous, courteous affectionate, cheerful and impressionable, creative mind, fruitful action, best fitted for business, smooth profession, speculative tendency, popular and prosperous.

 Profession : Benefit through Government, Victory over enemies, acquires costly jewels and dress, contacts with foreigners, realization of even bad debts, pleasant functions, music, dance, drama, opera, poet, artist, drawing master, draftsman, sculpture, silk, photography, international trade, installation of parks, decoration, industry, medical department, engineer, tax collector, wool dealer, export of hair, assessment, venereal expert.

 If a person expects the date on which he can enjoy the results of Sun Dasa Venus Bhukthi or Venus Dasa Sun Bhukthi, one has to select the time when the significators transit in that part of the
 Zodiac, as below.
a. The Lord of the sign Venus and the zone star-ruled by
 Sun i.e. Karthigai 2,3,4 padas.
b. The lord of the sign Sun and the zone-star-Poorva-palguni (Leo 13°-20' to 26°-40’) governed by Venus or
c. Venus star, Sun sub or d. Sun star, Venus sub.

 Important events indicated by these two planets cannot happen on other dates. These will be explained in detail in the book “Udu-Dasa”.
4. ROHINI : 10° Taurus to 23°-20' Sign ruled by Venus star governed by Moon.

 Part of the body : Face, mouth, tongue, tonsils, palate, neck, cerebellum, atlas, cervical vertebrate.
Diseases : Sore-throat, cold, Cough, pain in the legs and apoplexy, irregular menses, sweating.

 Mental qualities : Pleasant manners, good nature, enjoys nature, taste in music, art, drama, literature, public function, maternal affection, sympathetic, enjoys life in the company of other sex. (Will be truthful, pure, sweet-tongued, with a settled mind and lovely appearance).

 Profession : Caters to the need of the public, hotels, restaurants, lodging-houses, bakeries, boarding houses with comforts and conveniences, bar attached, dealers in houses, lands, fruits, automobile, petrol, oils, milk, dairy farm, ice cream, glass, plastic, scents, perfumeries, soap, sandalwood, oil, paints, water, colour, dyes, liquids, acids, marriage broker, dress and pearls dealer, navy, shipping, clearing agent, judge, politician, tannery, yarn merchant, sugar, sugarcane, sugarcoated tablets, etc. (King, Wealthy person, observers of vows, merchandises, cartmen, cows, bulls, aquatic animals, agriculturists, yogis, mountains and men in authority).
5. a. MRIGASIRA First Half : 23° -20’ in Taurus to 30° Taurus ruled by Venus. Star governed by Mars. *

 Part of the body : Face, chin, cheeks, larynx, palate, carotid, arteries, jugular veins, inflamed tonsils.

 Diseases : Pimples, cuts and injuries in those parts, pain in the throat, adenoids, diphtheria, weak loins and king's evil, nose-bleed, goitre, constipation, venereal distemper polypus.

 Profession : Estate owners, land, building, instrumental music, exhibition, display, eversilver, platinum, tailor, dressmaker, mobile structurals, fertilizer, automobile engineering, income tax and sales tax department, skins and hides, tobacco, snuff, confectionery, marriage mandapam owners, veterinary doctors, animal husbandry, lethal chamber, cartmen, rickshaw pullers, taxi drivers, fruit sellers like apple, banana, etc., whereas Rohini sho.vs oranges, grapes and juicy ones, gains through business, textiles, cinema industry, sound engineer, photography, diamonds, rubies,
corals, jewellery, vaseline, snow, face powder, sandal powder, tooth paste, brush etc.
5. b. MRIGASSIRA Second Half : 0° to 6°-40’ Gemini sign owned by Mercury and star governed by Mars.

 Parts of the body : Throat, vocal cord, arms, shoulders, ears, thymus gland, upper ribs.

 Diseases : Corrupted blood, itches, wounds, and fracture of arms, collarbone, fractured femur, sciatica, surfeit, fever, pains inthe shoulders near collar bone, arms, disorders in secret parts, inflammation of pericardium.

 Mental qualities : Gives mental energy, enthusiasms, dexterity, quick-witted, sharp, fluent, alert, quick, magnetic, impulsive, excitable, vitriolic in their wrath, tongues more poisonous than rattlesnake, acme of selfishness. (Will be fickle, sharp-witted, timid, eloquent, industrious, wealthy and indulging in sexual pleasure).

 Profession : Dealing in machineries, tools, instruments, electrical goods, surgical instruments, telephones, telegraph cables, wires, engineers, surgeons, soldiers, mathematicians, ambassadors, astronomers, building contractors, highways, bridge or damsite constructors, textile engineers, tape-record, gramaphone, radio dealers, press, publication, computers, calculators, salesman, representatives, agents, brokers, jobbers, thieves, etc. (Aquatic products, fragrant things, flowers, fruits, garments, gems, birds, beast, forests, drinkers of Soma juice, letter-bearers, lovers and musicians).
6. ARUDHRA : 6°-40' in Gemini to 20°. Lord of the sign
 Mercury. Lord of the star Ragu.

 Part of the body : Throat, arms, shoulders.

 Diseases : Septic throat, mumps, asthma, eosinophilia, drycough, diphtheria, ear trouble, pus in the ear.

 Mental qualities : Active mind, initiative perception, ingenious and critical, unsuccessful in literary pursuits, or a scholar
depending on Rahu in the individual's horoscope, good character reader, resourceful mind. (Slayers, adulterers, chasers, thieves, liars, cruelminded people, men versed in the art pertaining to goblins, catchers, rogues, sowers of discord, charmers, sorcerers, and husk-grain. Will be perfidious, haughty, ungrateful, mischievous and sinful).

 Profession : Salesman, bookseller, shopkeeper, Post &
 Telegraphs Department, Communication, transport, atomic energy, aerial, radio, advertising, publicity, writer, author, research department, explorer, dealing in drugs, beverages, canned goods, handwriting expert, finger print expert, public appointments, finance broker. Any how this zone of 13°-20' is barren. (Planets signifying birth of children, in this zone get weakened and mostly become barren). This area is good for statistics, physics, dynamics, gravitation. .
7.a. PUNARVASU 1,2,3 PADAS : Gemini 20° to 30° sign ruled by Mercury. Star by Jupiter.

 Part of the body : Ear, throat, shoulder blades.

 Diseases : Pleurisy, bronchitis, pneumonia, reins disorder, pericardium inflammated, swelling and pain in the ear, goitre due to iodine deficiency, infiltration in the upper lobe the lungs, pulmonary apoplexy.

 Mental qualities : Broad outlook, sharp intellect, good memory, worldly wisdom, correct intuition, clear in sight, proper jedgment, practical adaptability, mental balance, desire to learn more and more. (Pure, truthful, highborn, charitably disposed, handsome, intelligent, renowned and rich men, servants, artisans, merchants and valuable grain. Will be self-controlled, happy, amiable, dull, afflicted with disease, thirsty and easily contented).

 Profession :; Success in journalism, editing, publishing correcting, inspecting, story-writing, advertising, publicity, religion, law, literature, poetry, insurance agency, finance broker, accountants, auditors, civil judge, civil engineer, mayor, counsellor, school master, preceptor, interpreter, secretary,
registrar, messenger, Tamil Pandit, astrologer, mathematician, clerk, postman, clothes, woolen merchant, provision, dealer, planets which signify pregnancy in one’s chart gains beneficial strength when they are in this zone.
7.b. PUNARVASU 4" Quarter : In the sign cancer between 0° and 03°-20’. Lord of the sign is Moon. Lord of the Star Jupiter (Brahaspathi).

 Part of the body : Lungs, respiratory system, chest, stomach, oesophagus, diaphragm, pancreas, mammae, lacteals, upper lobes of liver, thoracic.

 Diseases : Dropsy, beriberi, stomach upset, irregular appetite, corrupt blood, tuberculosis, pneumonia, bronchitis, liver complaint, jaundice, gourmandize, dyspepsia.

 Mental qualities : Fertile imagination, honest, true, sincere, reliable, forgiving temperament, appreciates beauty, correct judgement and effective argument, given good vitality, resourcefulness and fertility, just and benevolent, compassionate, sympathetic, born rich, prince, politician.

 Profession ; Banker, physician, religious head, temples, economics, statistics, advocate, judge, professor, principal, merchant, sailor, traveller, manager of public conveyance, dealers in fluids, salesman, nurse, midwife, water supplier, female officials.
8. PUSHYAM : Between 3°-20' and 16°-40' in Cancer. Sign ruled by Moon and star governed by Saturn.

 Part of the Body : Lungs, stomach and ribs.
_ Diseases : Tuberculosis, ulcerations in the respiratory system, gastric ulcer, gallstones, nausea, belching, obstruction, bruises in the breast, scurvy, cancer, phythisis, jaundice, cough, hiccough, eczema, pyorrhoea, dyspepsia.

 Mental qualities : Economical, prudent, frugal, conservative, sober, contemplative, careful, attentive, self-reliant, has a systematic and methodical action, patiently works with perseverance, attains, position of trust (Minister, King, fisherman
and the like), persons engaged in big and small sacrifices, honest folk, (forests, wheat, sugarcane, rice and barley). Will be composed in mind, liked by all, learned, wealthy and inclined to be virtuous.

 Profession : Deals in mine products, kerosene, petrol, petroleum products, coal, lands, produce, wells, excavations, canals, trenches, deals in agricultural lands, holds position of trust, plumber, sexton, jailer, gravedigger, engineer digging wells, tanks, etc. and constructing bridges, dams, tunnels, those who work at, night and underground, dealers in oils, working in submarine.
9. ASHLESHA (9" Star) 16°-40' to 30° Cancer, Sign ruled by ,
 Moon and Star by Mercury.

 Part of the body : Lungs, stomach, oesophagus, diaphragm, pancreas, liver.

 Diseases : Vitamin ‘B’ deficiency, cold stomach, windiness, windpressing the diaphragm making it difficult to breathe, distillation of the rheum, pain in knees and legs. Drunkenness, jaundice, nervous, indigestion.

 Mental quality : Quick wit, ingenious, reasonable, versatile, fluent and copious in speech, good writer, acquires other languages easily, can imitate others, mimicry, has the desire to learn art, music and literature, fond of travels. (Will be in-sincere, inclined to eat everything, sinful, ungrateful and deceitful.)

 Profession ; Sale man, agent, representative, business,
 Commerce, international trade, clerk correspondent, author, writer, manufacturer, water supply engineer, textile engineer, dealer in yarn, paper, pen, ink, traveling agent, guide, hostess, astrologer, mathematician, water diviner, midwife, nurse.
(Pulps, roots, fruits, reptile, poison, worms, counterfeits, robbers, huskgrain and all classes of physicians.)
11.MAKAM : (10" Star) 0° to 13° -20' in Leo-Simha, Sign ruled by Sun, Star governed by Kethu.
Part of the body : Heart, back, spinal cord, spleen, dorsal tegion of spine, aorta.

 Diseases : Heart affected by sudden shock, grief or poison, pains in the back, cholera, humerous, gravel in kidneys, palpitation, regurgitation, faintings, signal meningitis.

 Mental qualities : Outspoken, assertive, combative, defensive, forceful, audacious, sensual, impulsive, proud short-tempered, hasty, fiery temper, enthusiastic and energetic, eminently fitted to occupy a position of trust both in public and private concern, good sportsman, contact with people in very high position, good appointment, undertake lofty plan, (Will be wealthy and have many servants, will enjoy life, worship the Gods and the Manes and be very industrious).

 Profession : Contracts big factories, chemical drug manufacturer, criminal lawyers, defence department, surgeons, medical department, Government service or security in service, manufacturer of imitation jewellery, cheap ornaments, electroplating, manufacturers of nickel and chromium plated surgical instruments, weapons (depending on the planet in this position or the sub in which it is or where the meridian falls select that department in Government service. Just like Sun's rays includes “VIBGYOR’, so also government service includes from menial to minister, peon to president.
(People rich in money and corn, men who are devoted to their elders and manes, granaries mountaineers, heroes, women haters, carnivorous beings).
12. POORVAPALGUNI : 11" Star. 13°-20' to 26°-40’ in Leo sign ruled by Sun, star governed by Venus.

 Part of the body: Heart, Spinal Cord.

 Diseases : Due to disappointment in love, heart affected,
 Loss of children affecting hearts, all due to shocks and irreparable loss, Curvature of the spine, anaemia, hydremia, pain in legs, swelling of ankle, blood pressure, aneurism, swelling of heart, valves affected.
Mental qualities: Competence in music, art, Kavi-poet,
 Generous, warmheartec, affectionate, fond of pleasure, luxury and comfort, temptation to speculate, true, honest, cautious, able to fulfil his desires, self-centred, desire to atleast attend dramas or dance, taste in drawing, sculpture and paintings, acquires fancy and costly jewels, dress, photography as hobby (artists, actors, young damsels, musicians, amiable persons, merchandise, cotton, salt, honey, oil mandy boys. Will speak sweetly, will be liberal in gifts, bright in appearance, fond of wandering, and loyal to his sovereign).

 Profession: Government service, Transport, Radio, Music, renovation of ancient paintings, preservation of monuments, museums, sports, mobile, automobile, disinfectant for crops, cinema theatre, studio, film section, photography, animal husbandry, slaughter house, lethal chamber, veterinary surgeon, leather, skin, hides, hotels, canteens, revenue department, house- building, maternity surgeon, venereal expert, educationalist, Vice-
 Chancellor, service in women’s colleges or jails, optician, glass dealers, cigarette manufacturers.
11.a. UTHRAPALGUNI - I* Pada: 12" Star. 26°-40’ to 30° in
 Leo. Sign ruled by Sun and the Star also governed by Sun.

 Part of the body : Spinal Cord.

 Diseases : Pains in the back and the head, spotted fever, plague, hyperaemia, faintings, blood pressure, becomes mad temporarily due to clotting of blood in the capillaries in the brain, palpitation, backache.

 Mental qualities: May or may not be violent. It depends on the planet in this area. Very violent if mars is in between 28°-26’-40’, and 29°-13'-20' in Leo. Ambitious, authoritative, boastful and domineering, energetic and enthusiastic, gaudy and generous, haughty and hopeful, illustrious, joyful, kingly, loyal, magnanimous, optimistic, proud, royal, stately and zealous (Charitable and learned persons, mild, modest, pure, heretical, highly wealthy men, those intend on their duties and kings, fine corn. Will be loved by all, earn money by his own learning, will be voluptuous and happy).
EEE

 Profession: Any service under government. Medical, defence, shipping, navy, industry, commerce, stock exchange-share business, maternity home, heart specialist.
12.b. UTHRAPALGUNI-2™ 3° and 4" Padas: In Virgo 0° to 10°-12" Star. Sign ruled by Mercury and star governed by Sun.

 Part of the Body : \ntenstines, bowels, liver.

 Diseases: Tumours in the bowels, obstructions, stomach disorder, sorethroat and swelling in neck.

 Mental qualities: Good reasoning, intelligent, tactful, business minded, studious, industrious, good in mathematics or engineering, astronomy, astrology, book keeping, clever and critical, dexterous and diplomatic, eloquent and educated (hygiene and sanitary engineering), ingenious and intellectual, accounts, business, acumen, advertising.

 Profession: Amalgamating a few companies, astronomer, astrologer, communication department, education department, handwriting expert, governor, tourist department, engineering, press, lecturer, correspondent, publication, public relation officer, megaphone, loudspeaker, manufacturer, telephone, mine engineering, State Trading Corporation, contractors, agents, industry, chemical engineering, physician, public health department, hospitals, Registrar of Newspaper, Registrar of birth and death, ambassadors, postal department.
13. HASTHAM: In Virgo 10° to 23°-20’. 13" Star. Sign ruled by
 Mercury and Star governed by Moon.

 Part of the body: Bowels, intestines, secreting glands, enzymes.

 Diseases : Vitamin B deficiency, gas formation, flatulence, loose bowels, pain and disorder of the bowels, obstructions, arms and shoulders weak, short breath, worms mucus, cholera, diarrhoea, typhoid, amoebic, and bacillary dysentery, neuralgia (imagination), fear complex, hysteria.
Mental qualities: Man versed in the Vedas, merchandises, traders and energetic men, Will be industrious, impudent, fond of drinking, merciless and thievish, charioteers, elephant drivers, robbers, elephants, artisans, husked-grain.

 Profession: Salesman, commerce, overseas, coinmunication, mail order business, shipping, clearing agent, textile, yarn, engineer, bridges, damsites, canals, tunnels, ink, press, ink manufacturer, advocate, sanitary engineer, export, import, artist, painter, politician, ambassador, embassy, messenger.
14.a. CHITHRAI-First Half: 14" Star. In Virgo 23°-20' to 30°.
 Sign Lord is Mercury. Star lord is Mars.

 Part of the body : Belly, Lower part.

 Diseases: Ulcers, sharp and acute pains, choleric humours, worms, irritation and itching, legs paining, dry-gripping pain, wounds from insects, reptiles and animals.

 Mental qualities: Humorous, dexterous, practical, business like, enthusiastic, bold, courageous, energetic, enterprising, active or quick tempered, sarcastic, argumentative, impatient, resentful, overworking and irritable. (Will wear beautiful) garments and flowers and will have beautiful eyes and limbs.

 Profession: Mechanical Engineer, Press, Publication, Building contractor or broker, Supplier to jail, criminal lawyer, tax department, Sales Tax, Income-tax, revenue, finance department, factory, industry, electricity, mine, tunnel, trenches, finger print expert. Police of Law and order and traffic, defence department, military accounts, cost accountant. Persons skilled in the art of ornamenting, painting, jewellery, singing, writing, perfumery, as well as mathematicians, weavers, physicians).
14.b. CHITHRAI 3° and 4" Padas: In Libra 0° to 6°-40’. Sign ruled by Venus and the Star by Mars.

 Part of the boay: Kidney, loins, hernia, Appendicitis, lumbar tegion of the spine, Vasomotor system.
Diseases: Polyuria, inflammation of ureter connecting kidney and bladder, Bright's diseases, lumbago, kidney trouble, excess of urine, hemorrhage of the kidneys, renal stories, sunstroke, brainfever, pains in head.

 Mental qualities: Ambitious, aspiring, adventurous, amorous, faculties of perception and observation, clear vision, refined tastes, idealistic temperament, intuitive mind, loves, science and refined occupations.

 Profession: Lawyer, Surgeon, scientist, Philosopher, religious, endowment board, business, military, defence department, industry, partnership in business, building contractor, litho press, artistic advertisement, decorators, scents, perfumeries, powders, marriage broker, registrar of marriages, sports materials, music, telescope, microscope, radio, television, tape-record dealers, lady doctors, surgeons, tailors, cigarette and snuff merchants, petroleum products, automobile spare parts, dress, jewels.
45. SWATHI: 6°-40' to 20° Libra Sign ruled by Venus. Star by
 Rahu.

 Part of the body : Skin, kidneys, ureter, appendicitis, hernia, . bladder.

 Diseases: Polyuria, urinary trouble, ureters ulcerated, pus formation, Bright's disease, eczema, skin trouble, leprosy.

 Mental qualities: Compassionate, honest, courteous, just, clear, intellect, initiative, perceptive, ability, powers of comparison, upright, sympathetic, flexible, sensitive, slow to lose temper, anger soon pacified, sweet nature, humane, fond of company, partnership, slow to grasp but remembers well. (Traders, feeble characters, ascetics and connoisseurs of wars, fickle-minded friends). (Will be modest, clever in trade, will be compassionate, sweet in speech and virtuous).

 Profession: A\l imitations, mobile, automobile, transport, tourist, music, opera, drama, art, paint, decoration, exhibition, tube light, fan, frigidaire, hot water equipments, hot air blower,

Xray instrument manufacturer, scientists, service in clinics, judge,
 Poet, toilet set manufacturer, confectionery, bakery, women’s apparel, fancy goods, perfumeries, readymade dress, maid servant, plastic, mica, ground glass scents, pasteurized milk, leather goods, Nadaswaram, bugles, cooks,-butters, silk-mercers, embroiderers, gloves, bonnets.
16.a. VISAKAM — 1,2, and 3 Padas: 20°to 30° Libra. Sign ruled by Venus and Star governed by Jupiter.

 Fart of the body: Lower abdomen, part near bladder, kidneys, and pancreatic gland.

 Diseases: Deficiency of Adrenal secretion, renal abscess, skin eruption, diabetes, kidney sluggish, insulin deficient, congestion of brain, coma, vertigo.

 Mental qualities: Pleasant manners, attractive appearance, polite, faith in God, conventional, universal love, brotherhood, generous, magnanimous, true, just, equanimous, broad-minded, talented, cultured. (Will be envious, covetous, of bright appearance, clever in talking and quarrelsome).

 Profession: Business with partners, travelling agent, tourist officer, shipping, air travel, dealings with foreigners, pawn - broker, banker’s speculator, race goer, works in building construction, fruit gardens, Tax and revenue departments, foreign trade, floats big companies, judge, auditor, professor, principal, physician, manufacturers, coloured papers, cinema publicity, advertisement through slides, actor, costly dress, lace, jewellery, perfumeries, minting, etc.
(Green gram, sesamum, black gram, Bengal gram, tree with red blossoms and fruits, cotton and men devoted to Indra or
 Agni). 16.B. VISAKAM 4" QUARTER: In Scorpio 0° to 3°-20' Sign tuled by Mars. Star governed by Jupiter.

 Part of the body: Bladder, urethra, genital organs, rectum, descending colon, prostate gland.
Diseases: Diseases of the womb, fibroid tumour, prostate gland enlargement, urinary trouble, frequent micturition, abnormal bleeding during menses, rupture, renal stones and gravel, uterine tumour, urethral abscess, dropsy, hydraemia, urates in excess, strangury, apoplexy, nosebleed.

 Mental qualities: (Fr. Montesque has said “It is by adventure that great actions are performed and not by the sovereigns of great empires”)

 Somewhat conservative, dignified, enthusiastic, influential, noble, sincere, honest, straightforward, free will, independent, candid, convincing, reasoning, extravagant, generous, overliberal, an extremist.

 Profession: Bank Judge, Criminal Lawyer, Insurance
 Company, chemical and drug manufacturer, land, estate owner, agriculturist, share market operations, more by jobbing than by investing, racing, cards, betting, dice, customs, industrial units, labour, port trust, defence department, defence Minister , village
 Munsiff, Ayurveda medicine.
17. ANURADHA: In Scorpio 3°-20’ to 16°-40', 17 Star, Sign ruled by Mars, Star governed by Saturn.

 Part of the body: Bladder, genital organs, rectum, nasal bones, bones near genital organs.

 Diseases: Suppression of menses poor bleeding and severe pain, stricture, sterility, constipation, piles, painful and not bleeding, nasal catarrh, phlegm, sore throat, fracture, hipbone.

 Mental qualities: Determined, energetic, dominant, forceful or selfish, violent, harsh, cruel, vindictive, untruthful, dishonest, unscrupulous, enthusiastic and practical.
(Men of prowess, those dealing in assemblies, heads of
 Corporations, travellers, hides, woolen articles, water diviner, kerosene merchants, oiling in foreign countries, will be unable to endure hunger.
Profession : Mines engineer, criminal lawyer, medicine, surgeon, instrumental music, industries, mechanical engineer, lead type foundry, actor, homeopathy, brothal, leather trade, skins and hides, woolen articles, water diviner, kerosene merchant, oil engine, oil crusher, amputating surgeon, Dentist, service in jail, judge, watchman, undertaker, plumber, laborious work, arduous nature, coal, mine ores dealers, linseed groundnut, mustard, cottonseed.
18. JYESTA : In Scorpio 16°-40’ to 30° Sign ruled by Mars.
 Star governed by Mercury.

 Parts of the body: Colon, anus, genital organs, ovaries, womb.

 Diseases: Leucorrhoea, bleeding piles, fistula, tumour, distemper in secret parts, affliction of bowels, pains in arms and shoulders.

 Mental qualities: Studious, quick in action, ingenius good humour, bold, blunt, never hesitate to fight atleast by words, resourceful, learned, indefatigable worker, practical persons, inexhaustible, fond of wit, quick - tempered, exaggeration, poisonous tongue. (Great marital heroes, those that are endowed with noble family, wealth, and fame, monarchs, intent on consequent, commandant and thieves. Will not have many friends, contented, will be virtuous and exceedingly irritable).

 Profession: Chemical Engineer, Press, publication, Ink, typewriter, textile mill machinery, industry, domestic, canals, thermal station, power house, impounded — reservoir, music instrument, jalatharangam, Insurance Agent, surgeon, surgical instrument, tonics, scrums manufacturer, Military, Navy accounts, advertisement, publicity, boilers, pumpsets, sessions judge, gallows, jails, postmortem, calculators, telegraph sets, cable and wire manufacturer, boatman representatives.
19. MOOLAM : In Sagittarius 0° to 13°-20’, 19" Star sign ruled by Jupiter. Star governed by Kethu.
Parts of the body: Hips, thighs, femur, illum, sciatic nerves.

 Diseases : Lecomotor ataxia, rheumatism, lumbago, hip diseases, pulmonary troubles.

 Mental qualities: Generous, honest, respectful, commanding others esteem, cordial, genial, jovial, law-abiding, superstitious, forgiving, philanthropic, benevolent, charitable, God-fearing, religious, hopeful, buoyant, humane, always contemplative, social. (Will be proud, wealthy, happy, firm minded but luxurious in living).
 Profession: Religious endowment, advocate, judge, teacher purohit, puranas, ambassador, Congressman, literate, cabinet official, physician, ayurveda, social worker, councillor, provision dealers, horse-racing, gain through big ventures, International trade. Assembly Speaker, exchange, imports, (Medicines,
 Physician, Deacon of Corporations, very rich man, persons dealing in flowers, roots and fruits, seeds, and those that feed on fruits and roots).
20. POORVASHADA : 20" Star. In Sagittarius 13°-20 to 26°- 40’ Sign lord Jupiter. Star Lord Venus.

 Fart of the body: Thighs, hips, the concygeal and sacral regions of the spine, the fillac arteries and Veins.

 Diseases : Sciatica, diabetes, rheumatism, respiratory diseases, cancer in lungs, hipgout, surfeits cold, moist, human putrefaction of blood, swellings above the knees.

 Mental qualities: Magnanimous, overliberal, broad-minded, educated, pleasing manners, polite, honest, loves others, just compassionate, moderate, optimistic, tolerant of others views, loves expensive and ultra-comfortable things, refined mind, fond of drama and art. (Tenderhearted men, fishermen, navigators, aquatic animals, etc. those that live by water, those who are devoted to truth, purity and wealth, constructors of bridges and aquatic, fruits and flowers. Will have an amiable wife, will be proud and firm in friendship).
Profession: Judge, advocate, banker cashier, accountant, director, revenue and finance department, food, sugar, silk, cotton rubber, railways, road, building, air travel, Goddess temple, social studies welfare officer, animal husbandry, garden, nursery, transport, music, film show, foreign trade, foreign exchange, stock exchange, restaurants, hostels, business partner, ayurveda medicine, physician, women and children hospital, Health centre.
21.a. UTHRASHADA 1* Quarter : In Sagittarius 26° -40’ to 30°. Sign ruled by Jupiter. Star governed by Sun.

 Part of the body: Thighs, femur, arteries.

 Diseases: Sciatica, paralysis of limbs, pulmonary diseases, eye affected

 Mental qualities: Lofty ideais, noble aspiring disposition, benevolent, philanthropic, success in religion, law-abiding, expansive mind disposition, funny and jovial, cheerful, hopeful, no mind to have “tainted money”. Pillars of good society, optimistic outlook, cheerful, proficiency in some branch of learning.
(Mahouts, Wrestlers, horses, elephants, immovables, warriors, devotees of Gods, persons enjoying pleasure and militant persons. Will be well-behaved, righteous, will have many friends, will be grateful and amiable).

 Profession: Arbitrator, judge, politician, bank, finance department, shipping, education, religion, international trade,
 Embassy, Export promotion, Free Trade, Physician, Ayurveda
 Medicine, port trust, Customs, Jail department, Refugee Camp,
 Hospitals, Charitable Institutions.
21.b. UTHRASHADA 2", 3° and 4" padas: In Capricorn 0° to 10°. Sign ruled by Saturn and star by Sun.

 Part of the body: Skins, Knees, Patella.

 Diseases: Eczema, skin diseases, leprosy, crysipeas, digestive trouble, uneasiness due to gas in the stomach, dull pain, rheumatism, palpitation of heart, cardiac thrombosis.
a
 Menta! qualities: Methodical, organising with foresight, diplomatic during execution, carrying out any work with moral stamina, sincere, reliable, economical, prudent, indomitable will, calculative, best fitted to reduce expenses and hold a Position in retrenching department, or such departments to say “No” to lengthen correspondence, to delay as much as possible and atlast sanction to the dissatisfaction of the applicant.

 Profession: Position of trust, estate, mine, coal, income-tax officer attending to wealth duty, estate duty, scientific research, finance department, curtailing expenses, control department, archaeology, monuments, antiquities, wool, Homeopathy, Jail,
 Engineer, ancient language, skins, hides.
21.SRAVANA: In Capricorn 10° to 23°-20'. Sign ruled by
 Saturn and star by Moon.

 Part of the body: Lymphatic vessels, knee, skin.

 Diseases: Filaria, eczema, skin diseases, leprosy, boils, pus formation, rheumatism, tuberculosis, pleurisy and poor digestion.

 Mental qualities: Sober, conservative, pessimistic, cautious, economical, prudent, contemplative, careful, a little funky, lacks courage, true, sincere, faithful patient worker, perserverence, attentive (Jugglers, ever-active, able, devotees of Vishnu, energetic and righteous men and truthful persons. Will be learned,
 Possess a generously-disposed wife, will be wealthy and famous).

 Profession: Mine, mine products, liquids, oil, kerosene, petrol, coal, wet lands, wells, trenches, excavation, tunnels, fisherman, minister, king, agriculturist, plumber, mine, engineer, ice cream, frigidarie, aircooler, those who serve at night and work underground, driver, pearls, submarine.
23.a. DHANISHTA 1* Half: In Capricorn 23°-20’ to 30°. Sign ruled by Saturn and star by Mars. é

 Part of the body: Kneecap bones.

 Diseases : \njury in the leg, boils, Eosonophilia, dry cough, hiccough, flying gout, lameness, amputation.
Mental qualities: Firm will, decisive, active, alert, careful and forceful, cautious and courageous, selfish, vindictive and violent, extravagant, occasionally ambitious, greedy, liberal, in gifts, fond of music, men without arrogance or pride, eunuchs, rich people, trying to maintain peace and avoiding disputes.

 Profession: Mine and ground engineer, death duty, estate duty, insurance, philosopher, Homeopathy, Ayurvedic, Jail department, gallows, murderer, slaughter house, surgeon dealing with fractures, amputation, labourer, labour department, welfare department, refugee camp, rehabilitation, industry, tools, spare parts, etc., distilleries, zinc, cement, metallurgy, lead, quarry, jute, barley, potato.
23.b. DHANISHTA 2” Half i.e. third and fourth padas: In
 Aquarius 0° to 6°-40’, Sign ruled by Saturn and Star by Mars.

 Part of the body: Ankles, limbs, portion between knees and ankles.

 Diseases: Fracture of the leg, Varicose Veins, blood poisoning, heart failure, cardiac thrombosis, high blood pressure, overheated blood, palpitation, fainting.

 Mental qualities: Quarrelsome, cantankerous, short tempered or quick witted, scientific minded, research worker, sincere in religion, faithful in affections, fond of society, will try to start many clubs and organise, fickle friends, charitable, becomes rich.

 Profession: Agriculture, tea, coal, steel plants, explorer, mine, lead, ferruginous, control and ration office, reclamation of waste: lands, Retrenchment office, engineer, leather, skin, hides, postmortem, slaughter house, police, military, communication, press, foundry, rehabilitation of sufferers from floods, earthquake and war or riots and revolts, monuments, archaeology, building contractor, television, telegram, telephone, electricity, atomic energy, all research stations, silk, hessain.
24. SATHABISHA: In Aquarius 6°-40' to 20° sign ruled by
 Saturn and Star by Rahu.
Part of the body: Portion between knees and ankles, calfmuscle.

 Diseases: Rheumatism, Rheumatic heart, eczema, leprosy, palpitation, high blood pressure, fracture, amputation, lame, guineaworm.

 Mental qualities: Sincere, strong, forceful, independent, original, patient, persevering, lethargic, lazy, fond of leisure and holidays or fond of working separately.

 Profession: ‘ Scientist, occult subject, gravitation, dynamics, electricity, atomic theory, air travel, astronomer, astrologer, amputator, stretcher-carrier, renovation of the ancient science, history, Ration office, Census, Censor, Statistics, Stock exchange,
 Technician, Jail department, translation, and transliterations of old manuscripts, laboratories, factories, Tanneries, counterfeit.
25.a. POORVAPATHRAPADA 1,2,3 Qrs. In Aquarius 20° to 30°. Sign ruled by Saturn. Star ruled by Jupiter.

 Part of the body: Ankles.

 Diseases: Apoplexy, irregularity of heart, dropsy, milk-leg, swollen ankles, palpitation, dilated heart, low blood pressure.

 Mental qualities: Humane, hopeful, philosophic, optimistic, fond of friends, truth , honest, sincere, reliable, interest in science, philosophy, astronomy, astrology, literature, criticism, systematic action, yet lethargic, capable of extracting work from others, liberal, helpful, unselfish. If a malefic is in this zone, in the ascendant: robber, murderer, devoid of virtue, irreligious, ever fighting, courtbird, hen pecked, miser, clever.

 Profession: Teacher-Dynamics, Statistics, Astronomy,
 Astrology, medicine, aeroplane, municipality, corporation, public limited concerns, stock exchange, share broker, air travel, research worker, planning commission, international trade, overseas bank, foreign exchange, education, finance, revenue department, insurance, temple, trustee, executive officer, mint, currency, mining,
 Anti-corruption department, intelligence department (C.I.D.)
25.b. POORVAPATHRAPADA 4" Quarter: In Pisces 0° to 3°-20’. Sign ruled by Jupiter and star governed by Jupiter.

 Part of the body: Feet, toes.

 Diseases: Swelling, perspiring feet, enlarged liver, abdominal tumour, intestines affected, hernia, Jaundice, sprue, corns.

 Mental qualities: Magnanimous, liberal minded, charitable, veritable, angels of mercy, fond of music, art, philosophy, literature, law-abiding, true, a little vacillating, pleasing disposition, polite behaviour.

 Profession: Politician, profession, minister, councillor, president, legal education, religious and finance department, judge, criminal lawyer, arbitrator, trustee, visitor of jails, hospitals, famine and refugee camps, planning commission, decontrol, tourist, explorer, physician and surgeon, bank, foreign exchange, prisoners of war, risky investments, associations, public companies
26. UTHRAPATHRAPADA: In Pisces 3°-20’ to 16°-40’. Sign ruled by Jupiter and star governed by Saturn.

 Part of the body: Feet.

 Diseases: Rheumatic pains, drop foot, indigestion, constipation, hernia, flatulence, fracture in the foot, coldfoot, tuberculosis, dropsy.

 Menial qualities: Strong character, benevolent disposition, philosophical mind-likes seclusion-hates disturbance, found of society, desire to help the poor and invalid, Visitor of jails,
 Sanatoriums, independent, original (fraud if afflicted).

 Profession: Home department, prisons, Asylum, Sanatorium,
 Isolated hospitals, prisoner of war, civil jail, political jail, mines, excavator, Engineer, export, import, harbour storekeeper- inheritance, traditional business, gains through societies, clubs, companies, public appointment, hospitals, religious and charitable institutions, submarine, shipping, foundaries, legal, insurance, intelligence department, C.I.D., education, tourist
home, manufacturer of Rain coats, umbrella, sponger, boats, life boats etc. oils, fishers, breweries, river and canal constructor, tunnel construction, trench excavators.
27. REVATHI is Pisces 16°-40’ to 30°. Sign ruled by Jupiter and star governed by Mercury.

 Part of the body: Feet and toes.

 Diseases : Abdominal disorders, troubles, deformities of the feet, intestinal ulcers, mostly due to drinks and drugs, gout in the feet, cramps, Nephritis, Lassitude, deafness, pus in the ear.

 Mental qualities: Vaccilation, indecisive,’ flexible, and impressionable mind, intuitive, human sympathetic, shrewd, clever, religious and philosophical, ripe judgement, fruitful mind, honest and honourable, studious, mental balance, sober, proficient and competent, honest, caring more for integrity.

 Profession: Publisher, editor, religious, legal, civil engineering departments, Share broker, advertisement, publicity, propaganda, communications, lawyer, judge, professor, politician, ambassador, representative, telephone, typewriter, radio, tape- recorder, currency notes, international trade, messengers, embassy, accountant, auditor, trustee, governor, university, employment exchange, newspapers, clerk, shipping, import, export, excise, customs, harbour, port trust, religious head- purohits, preachers, industry, finger print expert, successful diplomats, astrologer, mathematician, broker, agent, bank, etc.

WHAT EACH STAR SIGNIFIES TO EACH LAGNA OR RASI BORNS
 Normally when we judge a horoscope, we prefer to follow the Vimshottari system and also include the Gochara (Transit).
 We judge the lord of the dasa, and consider him to be either favourable or not,
a. by the house it occupies. b. By its lordship, c. By its nature and d. By the planets conjoined with or aspecting the dasa lord.
 Further to find out to which extend a planet is capable of bringing out the result is estimated according to Sadbala or as per
 Astagavargha. In practice, it is found that the dasa lord offers certain nature of results in its period which is not indicated by its nature, lordship or occupation in a sign or house. For example, a person born in the Ascendant Libra-(Thulam) having Mars in the constellation Jyesta in Scorpio in its own sign, a fixed one has given an opportunity to leave his kith and kin, get separated from his family, go overseas, learn how to manufacture press ink and teturn. Mars, as lord of 2, in the 2"4 house itself has to allow him being a fixed sign, to stay in his own place. As it is neither in 9 nor in the movable, watery sign, or in 12, normally one cannot expect overseas Jou. ney during Mars Dasa. But if one finds out in which constellation Mars was and then read out the matters signified by the lord of the constellation by its lordship, then the other results enjoyed by him, will agree with the indication of the lord of the constellation to that particular lagna born. Mercury is the lord of
 Jyesta; it owns the houses 9 and 12 indicating overswas. Mars in
 Mercury star shows press, writing, printing, etc., and ina watery sign indicates ink and the results do agree in full.
In another horoscope a gentleman born in Aquarius having exalted Saturn in the beginning of Libra (Vargothama) entered into military service during Saturn dasa. Neither Saturn nor the lord of the sign (Venus) in which Saturn was in rasi and Navamsa indicate Defence department. But if we note in which constellation
 Saturn was, we find that it was in Chitra ruled by Mars, which rules the 10" house and also indicates military service. Thus in every horoscope, one can understand that a planet offers the result of the lord of the constellation more predominantly than those indicated by the sign or house which it occupies. Therefore, constellation is the main and important division of the Zodiac to read the results of a horoscope. Therefore, what results normally one can expect from a planet, (a) by its occupation, (b) ownership and (c) nature will be actually enjoyed during the periods and sub-periods of the planet in its constellation, during its own period and subperiod, the results of the lord of the constellation will predominate in addition to what it has to offer by occupation of house etc.
 Hindus classify and call a planet to be good or bad according to its lordship of a sign counted from the sign where lagna falls.
 Westerners judge a planet whether it is favourable or unfavourable according to the nature of the aspect the planet receives and, according to its situation. But | do not attach importance to the name of the planet or its position etc. | give importance to the 27 zones in the zodiac and to the subdivisions, as these are capable of thoroughly changing a benefic (according to Hindus and Westerns) to a malefic (which is actually experienced and confirmed by the native) or changing a malefic (according to Hindus and Westerners) to a benefic (which agrees with the results enjoyed).
 A father is good to his son. He may occupy a good position, say (exalted) judge; so a Sagittarius-born is confident that he will escape, whatever crime he commits. During Venus dasa the son forges a document... The case is posted under his own father.
 He regrets saying that his hands are tied up by the law and he
punishes his own son. Sun may be a benefic by owning 9* house.
 It gets exalted and is in a kona. It has to do good. But during
 Sun dasa Kethu Bhukthi Mars anthra, the native is punished as
 Sun was in Aswini Star whereas Mars and Kethu were in 9. Kethu is to give the results of Mars which owns 12" house imprisonment.
 Therefore the sub divisions and the stars are to be classified as good or bad: Planets cannot overrule the indications of the lord of the star and sub.

(ARIES BORNS )
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam : stars are ruled by kethu. As Kethu does not own any house, find out the planets with which it was in conjunction or by which it is aspected or the sign and constellation in which Kethu was at the time of birth. If it is not conjoined with or aspected by any planet, the results of the lord of the constellation and sign will be experienced if a planet was in any of these three stars at the time of birth or during transit in one’s life time.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam:\enus is the ruler of the three stars. As Venus owns the second and seventh houses to Aries, the results of these two houses, i.e. second and seventh are to be predic*ed if any planet occupies these stars or transit in these.
 If Venus, at birth occupied a sign favourable to both Tauras and
 Libra, both the houses will be represented by Bharani trine. If
 Venus at birth occupied 6 or 8 or 12" sign to either Taurus or
 Libra and if Venus improves the matters of either of the two houses and is weak to offer the results of another house, planets occupying these stars or transiting in these stars will give such results as is denoted by Venus.
 Anithigal, Uthram, Uthradam :\f a planet occupies these three stars or while it moves on in these constellations, the results of the 5" house is to be predicted to Aries borns, as these stars are governed by Sun who owns Leo, the 5" house counted from the
 Ascendant of Aries-borns.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam : As Moon rules the 4" house for the Aries-borns the results indicated by the 4" house will operate while a planet transits in these three starts or if any were to be therein at the time of birth of the person. (Also 4" house matters will be offered by the planets, occupying the constellation of the planets situated in the 4" house). |
 Mrigasirasha, Chithrai, Avittam: Mars is the owner of these stars. Mars is the lord of 1 and 8 to Aries. So we have to presage the results of the houses 1 and 8 during the period of the planet in any of these three stars at birth or while in transit. These results will predominate. (Planets in the constellation of the occupants of these houses are very strong to give the matters of these houses).
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha: Rahu is allotted these three stars by our sages. As Rahu does not own any sign, find out with which planet it is conjoined or aspected by and the sign and the constellation where it was at birth. The results of Rahu will operate when a planet was posited in these stars at birth, or when planets transit in these stars. (Rahu or Kethu will give the results of the planets with which it is conjoined then those of the planet which aspects them. Lastly, those of the lord of the sign).
 Punarspusam, Visakam, Poorattathi : These three stars are governed by Jupiter who owns the 9" and 12" houses to Aries borns. You have to offer the results of the 9" and 12" houses, if a planet has occupied any of these three stars at birth whatever may be the house. When a planet transits in these stars whatever may be the nature, lordship or occupation of the transiting planet, the results enjoyed, depend on the lord of the constellation whereas the transiting planet indicates the source and explains how he gets such results. Suppose lord of 5 transits. Daughter delivers a child. The native spends money, How? Sth house is the 5" to the 5. So, daughter will have a child. 12" house is 8 to 5". So, she has temporary suffering. 12° house is expenses to the native.
 Therefore, Sun transiting in any of these stars or sub will cause expenses. If Moon transits, through mother expenses.
Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi : Saturn is allotted these three stars. If a planet were to be in these at birth or when any planet transit through these, you have to give the results of the 10" and 11" houses, as Saturn rules these houses to Aries borns.
 Eventhough Anuradha happens to be in the 8" sign, itis observed the Aries-borns have substantial gains when slow moving planet transit in the star Anuradha. Threatening Ashtama Sani gives pleasant shock and surprisingly good fortune.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Mercury who is the lord of the 3° and 6" houses to Aries rules over these stars. Foretell the results of the 3% and 6" houses when a planet is therein at birth or when a planet transits in these stars, whenever a particular planet transits in a particular sub in a star, the same nature of results will be experienced through the same or similar sources, the extent depending on the dasa then running.

 TAURUS BORNS
Aswini, Makam, Moolam, are ruled by the Kethu who does not own any sign in the Zodiac. Find out with which planet Kethu is conjoined or which planet aspects Kethu; also the sign and constellation where Kethu was at the time of birth. You have to offer the results according to the lord of the constellation and the sign which Kethu occupied if it is not conjoined with or aspected by any, if a planet were to occupy one of these three stars or transit in any of these three stars to Taurus borns.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam: These stars are governed by
 Venus which owns the 1* and 6" house to Taurus borns. When a planet moves on in these three stars or occupy any of them at the time of birth, we have to predict the matters signified by the houses 1 and 6. For example lord of 10 in any of these three stars, gives ill health, causes enmity, offers success in competition, etc. instead of giving promotion and maintaining good relationship.
Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam: Sun the major strong luminary govern these stars and owns the 4" house to Taurus persons. If a planet is in these stars during transit or is occupying any of the three at birth, presage the 4" house matters to this native. Even when a planet transits in the 8" or 9" house in Uthradam cr occupies at birth, the planet offers the results of the 4" house to the native. Suppose Mars is in Sagittarius, in Uthrashada star. As
 Mars is lord of 12, one may invest on an industry or Factory and buy land, building etc., If Venus is there, one may have a car on hire purchase as Venus rules 6" house-debts.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam:\f a planet occupies any ofthese stars at the time of birth or transit in any we have to predict 3° house matters to Taurus borns as Moon owns the 3"¢ house.
 Suppose Mars transits in these stars, Mars indicates as lord of 7, wife and as lord of 12, expenses; but if a planet transits in Rohini in Lagna; the native makes short travel. But when Mars transits in Hastham, Mars indicates, expenses through wifo and being the 11" to the 7%, it indicates gains to her, or purchases for her. It is the general predictions it does not happen. But the partner goes on a long journey; has treatment for the disease and gets cured.
 Mrigasirasha, Chithrai, (Avittam or) Dhanishia : Mars, lord of 7 and 12 owns these three stars. The astrologer must give the results, signified by the 7 and 12!" house to Taurus borns if a planet were to be in any of the above said three stars at birth or during transit. If a Taurus-born has married a talkative partner, then during the periods and sub-periods of the planet occupying
 Mars star may cause even violence, and separation.
 Rahu, who does not own any house rules over Arudhra,
 Swathi, Sathabisha. Ascertain the combination of planets with
 Rahu, the sign and star where it was at birth in the chart. Those results indicated by lordship of the star and sign where Rahu was, will be experienced by the persons born in Taurus, during the periods and subperiods of the planets in the constellation of
 Rahu.
Jupiter, a natural benefic is the owner of the three stars
 Punarvasu, Visaka, Poorattathi. As Jupiter is the lord of 8" and 11" house, you have to read the results of the 8 and 11" house matters if a planet was in these stars at birth or while a planet transits in any of these stars.
 Pushyam, Anuradha and Uthrattathi are governed by Saturn who owns the 9" and 10" house to Taurus natives. Ifa planet were to be in any of these stars at birth or if a planet transits in any of these three stars, the native will have the results of the 9" and 10" houses; Suppose, Jupiter was in Anuradha. It is in 7. 7" house does not show overseas and higher education. But these are shown by lord of 9 and 10. Jupiter, instead of giving troubles as lord of 8, it causes the most beneficial and agreeable results, and gives higher education and long Journey.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta and Revathi are ruled by Mercury owning houses 2 and 5 to Taurus borns. The native will experience the results signified by these houses, if a planet occupies any of these stars at birth or When a planet moves on in these three stars. Suppose Moon was is Jyeshta. Moon is lord of 3. It has nothing to do with children. But it a person has a child in moon sub-period, in Hastham Star, which are we to take: either the sign lord or the star lord or the house it owns or occupies.

 GEMINI BORNS
 Kethu owns the stars Aswini, Makam, Moolam but it has not been allotted any sign. Find out the star and house where Kethu was at birth, the planets conjoined with it or the planets aspecting it. If a planet occupies these stars at birth or transit, offer the
 Predictions signified by the lord of the constellation and the sign where Kethu was. “SS
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradamare ruled by Venus, who is lord of 5 and 12 to Gemini borns. If a planet occupies these stars at birth or in transit, the results of the 5" anc 12 houses are to be offered. Eventhough, Bharani is in the 11" sign which is to give
pleasure, profit and only desirable beneficial results, yet the matters of 5'" and 12" houses are experienced, Mostly Gemini borns go overseas and enjoy life even during the periods of evil planets, because they are in any of the 3 stars.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam: Sun, lord of 3 owns these three stars. If a planet was in any of these three stars at birth or during its transit, the results of the 3 house are offered to Gemini borns.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam: Moon a weak luminary, owns the 2™ house and also these stars. Eventhough Rohini is ir the 42" sign, Sravanam, in the 8" sign to Gemini yet the results signified by the 2" house are experienced if a planet is in these stars at birth or when it transit in any of them.
 Mrigasirasha, Chithrai, Avittam: These stars are ruled by Mars who owns the 6" and 11" houses. If a planet where to occupy these stars at birth or passes in these stars, the results indicated by these houses 6 and 11 are offered to Gemini-borns.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathayam: Rahu the Ascending Node owns these three stars. So find out where Rahu was at birth, i.e. the sign and constellation it occupied. Offer the results of the lord of the sign and constellation where Rahu was, if you find any planet is in these stars at birth or during transit and provided the node is not conjoined with or aspected by any planet.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi: The benevolent Jupiter who is the lord of these 3 stars owns the 7" and 10" houses to
 Gemini -borns. If a planet occupies any of these stars at birth and passes these stars in transit, it offers the results signified by the 7* and 10" house results. It will prove to be a strong maraka.
 To Gemini-borns, Jupiter is the Bhadhakasthana adhipathi. If there is no planet in Sagittarius, at the time of birth, then Rahu in the constellation of Jupiter is the strongest evil to affect one’s longevity though it is very beneficial for marriage and business.
 Pushyam, Anusham, Uthrattathi: Saturn, the slow-moving planet owns these stars and also the 8" and 9" houses to Gemini borns. If a planet occupies any star at birth or transits these stars the results of the 8" and 9" house are to be presaged.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Mercury lord of 1 and 4" rules over these three stars. The native will enjoy the results signified by these houses if a planet occupies or transits these stars__—

CANCER BORNS
 Kethu or Dragon's tail govern the stars Aswini, Makam,
 Moolam, Ascertain which sign and constellation Kethu occupies or transits in the horoscope. The results will be indicated by the lord of the constellation and sign. These will be experienced by
 Cancer borns if a planet occupies or transits these, stars.
 Venus owns the stars Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam and also the houses 4 and 11 to Cancer-borns. If a planet occupies any of these stars at birth or in transit, the results signified by the lordship of 4" and 11" house is to be predicted. A person, has Moon in
 Pooradam, born in Cancer Lagna, acquires land in Moon dasa.
 Neither as lord of 1 nor as the planet in 6, it has anything to do with property. But, if one studies the lord of the constellation, he gets the scientific explanation.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam are allotted to Sun. Sun owns the 2" house. Any planet in these stars at birth or while in transit, the native will enjoy the results of the 2" house.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam: Lord of lagna governs these three stars. When a planet was in any of these three stars at birth or while in transit, offer the results signified by the first house to the native.
 Mrigasirisha, Chithrai, Avittam: Ruled by Mars, lord of 5 and 10, to Cancer-borns. The astrologer has to predict the results signified by the 5" and 10" houses to the native if he finds any planet in these stars in the horoscope or when it transits, in any of these three stars. Mercury, lord of 3 and 12, was in Mrigasira in Gemini. The native has gained money during Mercury sub period in speculation.
Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha: Rahu, the node, has been allotted these three stars. Find out with which planets it was conjoined or aspected by and the sign and constellation in which it was posited at birth. The results indicated by the lord of the constellation where Rahu was, will operate when a planet is in any of these stars. Suppose, Rahu is in the 10" house. A planet in the 12" house in Arudhra gives increase in income during this planet’s sub-period, instead of loss indicated by 12" house.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi are governed by the benevolent planet Jupiter who also owns the houses 6 and 9. Ifa planet occupies any of these stars at birth and transit in any of these, the results signified by the 6" and 9" houses are offered to the native.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi: Saturn the delaying planet owns the houses 7" and 8" and also these three stars.
 Eventhough these stars are in the houses 1,5,9, which are said to be Kona houses which will indicate only good results, yet the persons born in Cancer will have the results signified by the 7" and 8" houses alone, during the periods and sub-periods of planets in these constellations, eventhough they may own good houses. A person having Venus in Pushyam, had untold miseries and worries during Venus sub-period; as lord of 11, Venus caused worry through fourth son. Source is shown by the planet. Worry is indicated by the lord of the constellation.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Mercury is the ruler of these stars.
 It also owns the 3 and 12" houses to Cancer borns. If a planet passes in these stars, the results indicated by the houses 3 and 12 will be enjoyed. For instance, Revathi is in the 9” sign. But if a planet occupies this star at birth or transits, the native will enjoy the results of the 3 and 12" houses and not the results indicated by the 9" house. (That is why people born in Karkata lagna do not enjoy favourable results during the period of the planets in 5 or 9 as the lord of the constellation in these signs are ruled by either lord of 6 or 8 or 12. But they are fortunate during the period of the planets in the constellation of Mars eventhough the houses may be 3 or 8 or 12).

LEO BORNS
Aswini, Makam, Moolam stars are ruled by Kethu, the Moon's node. As it does not own any sign, note the planets which are conjoined with it or aspect it and also the lord of the constellation in which itis. The results signified by the planet with which itis conjoined or by which it is aspected or lord of the constellation will be experienced by the native if a planet transits through these stars.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam are governed by Venus which owns the 3 and 10" houses to Leo-borns. If a planet occupies any of these stars at birth or transit through these, the results signified by the houses 3 and 10 will be enjoined.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam: The lord of lagna Sun is the ruler of these Stars. So, when a planet is noticed in any of these stars, you can offer the results of the 1** house and not the results of the sign in which it transits. It promises success and speedy recovery from disease.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam: The luminary owns these three stars who also owns the 12" sign to Leo-borns. So the results indicated by the 12" house alone will be enjoyed by the native if a planet occupies these stars. For instance, Hastham, is in the second sign to Leo. Instead of enjoying the results indicated by the second house (i.e. increase in income and improvement in status) the querist will experience only the result of 12" house (i.e. loss of money and position. Transfer and changes during the period of the planet in Rohini).
 Mrigasirisha, Chithrai, Avittam are allotted to Mars who owns the 4" and 9" house to Simha lagna -borns. The astrologer has to offer the matters signified by the houses 9 and 4 to the native when he notice any planet in any of these stars at birth or while in transit.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha: Our sages mentioned that Rahu is the owner of these stars which has not been given any sign.
Find out in which rasi and constellation Rahu was at birth. The results signified by Rahu will be enjoyed or experienced by the native.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi: Eventhough the beneficial planet Guru is the ruler of these stars, yet the native cannot enjoy any other result when a planet passes on in these three stars except the results indicated by the 5" and 8" houses as Guru is the lord of ihe 5" and 8" to Leo-borns.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi: Saturn lord of 6" and 7 is the owner of these three stars. If you note any planet in these stars, the results indicated by these 6 and 7 will be experienced by the native. 7
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Mercury, lord of 2 and 11, owns these three constellations. So the results signified by the houses 2 and 11 will be enjoyed by the native when a planet transits in any of these stars. For instance, Revathi is in the 8th sign.
 Normally, planet in the 8" sign will not produce desirable results to the native. Yet, as Revathi is ruled by Mercury, the native receives even the bad debts, becomes popular in his society and realises his ambitions during the sub-period of the planet in
 Revathi stars, as Budha owns the houses 2 and 11.

VIRGO BORNS
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam: Find out where Kethu was at birth, i.e. the constellation, and sign it occupied as it does not own any sign. The results signified by that constellation and sign will be enjoyed by the native when a planet transits in any of these three stars.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam: Venus, the lord of 2" and 9" houses, owns these stars. So, when you find a planet in any of these stars, offer the results of the 24 and 9" houses and not the result of the sign where it is. For instance, Bharani star is in the 8" sign.
Normally one will offer the result of the 8'" house, whena planet transits Bharani. tt goes wrong, as the native will go on long journey, appear for interview, will be selected and have monetary gains, as Venus the governor of Bharani is the lord of 2 and 9, promises desirable results.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam: Sun, the strong luminary rules over these three stars and also the 12" house. If a planet occupies any of these stars in whichever house it may be, yet the results indicated by the 12" house alone will be enjoyed by the native and not the results of the sign where the planet transits.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam: These stars are ruled by Lunar (Diana, i.e. Moon). Moon rules the 11" sign to Virgo-borns. If we notice any planet in any of these stars at birth or during transit, the native will realise his/her ambition, he popular, have substantial gains, etc., as the planet is in the constellation of lord of 11.
 Mrigasirsha, Chithrai, Avittam: Mars, lord of 3 and 8 to Virgo, is the owner of these three stars, If a planet be posited in any of these stars in the horoscope or move through these stars, it offers the results signified by the houses 3 and 8. It will be adverse.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathayam: Caput otherwise called Rahu is the governor of these stars. Find out the planets conjoined with
 Rahu, planets aspecting the sign and stars where Rahu is in the chart at birth. The results denoted by the lordship of the star and sign Rahu occupied will be experienced by the native.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi: Guru is the chief governor of these stars. It also rules over the 4" and 7 houses to Virgo-borns. If a planet is noticed in any of these stars at birth or while transit, the native will enjoy the results of the 4" and 7" houses. Example: Visakam star is in the 2°¢ house. If a planet goes through it, the native can enjoy the result signified by the 4" and 7" house only and much less the results of the 2°? house.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthratiathi: Saturn rules over these three stars who also happens to be lord of 5 and 6. If you find
ns
any planet either at birth or during transit, in any of these stars, predict the results signified by the 5" and 6" houses.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Lord of 1 and 10 Mercury is the owner of these stars, planets in any of these three stars in whichever sign it may be, will offer the results indicated by the 1* and 10" houses to the native. It is very good.

LIBRA BORNS
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam which are governed by Cauda otherwise known as Kethu does not own any sign in the Zodiac.
 Ascertain in which constellation and sign Kethu is in the chart.
 The results indicated by the lord of the constellation where Kethu was, will be experienced by the native.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam: Venus lord of 1 and 8 rules over these stars. If you find any planet in any of these stars, you have to predict the results indicated by the 1* and 8" houses only. For instance, Pooram is in the 11" sign to Libra. If a planet transits in that star, general principle of saying a planet in 11 will do only good will not operate, but the native will enjoy the results of the 1* and 8" houses only. He will fall ill, face danger and fail.
 Krithigai, Uthradam, Uthram : Sun is the owner of these stars which also owns the 11 sign. Any planet in any of these three stars in the horoscope will produce the result of the 11" house, i.e. profit, pleasure, realization of ambition, etc., eventhough the stars fall in any sign. For example, Krithigai in the 8" sign, Uthram in the 12" house does not offer the result of that sign but assures the results of the 11" house only.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam: Moon, the other luminary, is allotted these stars which owns the 10" house to Libra. Any planet in these stars produce the result of the 10" house and not the sign where it is at birth or while in transit.
 Mrigasirisha, Chitrai, Avittam: Mars is lord of 2 and 7 and also the owner of these stars. A planet in these stars in the chart
given by the native will bring out the results indicated by the houses 2 and 7 and does not produce the results of the sign in which it is or it transits.
 Ascending Node (Rahu) rules over the three stars Arudhra,
 Swathi, Sathayam. As our sages have not offered any sign to
 Rahu, find out in which sign and constellation Rahu was at birth.
 The results signified by these constellations and sign will be
 Offered to the native if any planet passes through these stars.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi : Stars are ruled by Guru who owns houses 3 and 6 to Libra -borns. If a planet is in any of these stars at birth or transit through stars you have to predict the results indicated by the 3% and 6" houses only.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi: Stars ate allotted to Saturn the only benefic to Libra-borns as it rules over the 4" and 5th houses. Planets in the stars ruled by Saturn will offer the results signified by the 4" and 5" houses and not the results of the sign where it transits.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Budha, the wavering planet governs over these three stars and also the houses 9 and 12 to
 Libra-borns. You will find that these stars falls in the 2", 6” and 10" signs, but the native will experience the results of the 9" and 12" houses only.

SCORPIO BORNS
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam : As the descending node (Kethu) does not own any sign but rules only these stars in the Zodiac, find out the planets that are conjoined with Kethu, aspecting Kethu and constellation and sign where it was at birth. The results signified by the lord of the constellation and sign will be enjoyed by the native, in whichever sign the stars may be.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam: These are governed by Venus who owns the 7" and 12" to Scorpio-borns. If a planet is noticed in any of these stars at birth or during transit, it will offer the
results of 7" & 12" houses. For instance, Pooradam is in the 2° sign to Scorpio. Generally, while a planet moves on in his star you will predict the results indicated by the 2™ house only, i.e., free flow of cash, increase in the members of the family, peaceful atmosphere at home, but the native will have secret inimical activities, ill-health to partner in life or business, as Venus happens to be lord of 7 and 12 to the native and lord of 1 and 6 to the 7” house which indicated wife or partner in business also death in a foreign place. 7 house shows death to the native, 12" house indicates far off place, separation from family members.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam are allotted to Sun, the strongest planet which rules the 10” house also to Vrishchika-borns. Any planet in the star ruled by Sun at birth or during transit will produce the results of the 10" house.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam are governed by Moon the
 Queen of Night. It rules the house 9 to this rasi-born. The astrologer has to offer the results which will be produced by the 9" house to the native and not the sign in which the stars are posited.
 Mrigasirisha, Chithrai, Avittam are ruled by the lord of 1 and 6, Mars. Planets in these stars produce the results of the houses 1 and 6.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathayam: Our sages did not allot any sign to Rahu. But it governs these stars. Rahu produces the results indicated by the lordship of the constellation and sign where it is at vith or during transit. Planets in these stars give the results indicated by Rahu.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi are ruled by Jupiter who owns the 2"! and 5" houses to Scorpio. Eventhough Punarpusam and Visakam are in the 8" and 12" Signs, yet the results enjoyed by the native will be the results allotted to the 2"4 and 5" houses by ancient astrologers, when a planet passes through these stars.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi are governed by Saturn.
 Houses 3 and 4 also are governed by the same planet, Saturn.
So when a planet occupies the star ruled by Saturn either at birth or during transit, it will produce the results of the 3% and 4" houses.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi: Mercury is the ruler of these three stars and owns the 8" and 11" houses to Scorpio-borns. If you find a planet in the stars ruled by Mercury, you have to portend the results indicated by the 8" and 11° house to the native forgetting the sign in which it is. It is very bad in the ascendant.

 SAGITTARIUS - BORN
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam were given to Dragon's Tail (Kethu) by our ancients but they did not allot any sign to it then. Find out sign and constellation where Kethu was at the time of birth or during transit. The results of the lordship of the star and sign where Kethu was will operate if a planet is in Aswini, Makam,
 Moolam.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam: These stars are ruled by Venus which rules the 6" and 11" houses to Dhanur-borns. If a planet occupies any of these three stars at birth or transit through these then the results indicated by the 6" and 11" houses will be enjoyed by the native.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam are governed by Sun the ruler of the 9" house to Sagittarius. Results produced by the 9" house will be enjoyed by the native, if a planet is in any of the stars.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam are allotted to Moon who is the owner of the 8" house. Planets in these stars at birth or while in transit will produce the results indicated by the 8" house and not the sign where planet is. For example, Sravanam is in the 2" house. When a planet moves on in it, the result of the 24 house will not be experienced but the result of the 8" house alone will operate. Hastham brings ill repute.
 Mrigasiasha, Chithrai, Avittam are allotted to Mars. Mars rules over the 5" and 12" houses to this rasi-born. In whichever sign these stars may be , yet the result of the 5" and 12" houses
alone will be enjoyed. For instance Chithrai in the 11" sign will make the native spend for his children, invest money, and to have worry due to inimical activities but the 11" sign shows alround success and popularity, peace of mind. Hence the lordship of the constellation alone should be taken into consideration while predicting.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha: The results signified by the constellation and sign lords where Rahu was at birth or is during transit will be enjoyed by the native, if a planet transits through the stars ruled by Rahu.
 Punarpushyam, Visakam, uthrattathi: Stars are governed by the benefic Jupiter wno happens to be the lord of lagna and also lord of 4. The results allotted to the houses 1 and 4 will be experienced by the native if a planet transits or occupies these three stars.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi ; Saturn rules these three stars. Saturn owns the 2™ and 37 houses to Sagittarius borns.
 So, the results of the 2" and 3'¢ houses will be enjoyed by the querist during the period when a planet moves on in the stars governed by Saturn.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi are governed by Mercury who owns the houses 7 and 10 to Dhanur rasi borns results indicated by the 7" and 10" houses will be enjoyed by the person if a planet occupies these stars at birth or during transit and not the results indicated by the sign it occupies where these stars are’ posited. Planets in Jyesta, gives promotion, transfer, and position.
 It also indicates, severing connection with one institution and accepting a better job in another institution.

 CAPRICORN — BORNS
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam are governed by the descending node Kethu. Find out the lord of the constellation and sign which kethu occupies. What Kethu promises to do, will be done by the
planet which occupied its star or which transits in any of the three stars.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam stars are ruled by Venus which owns the’5" and 10" houses also. If a planet occupies any of these stars at birth or transit through these stars, results indicated by the 5" and 10" houses will operate. For example, Pooram falls in the 8" sign to Makaram. When Moon transits in that star (Chandraastama day) the native will receive money and be happy.
 But, general prediction of the astrologers that the native cannot have any beneficial results and cannot have peace of mind during
 Chandraastama days will fail.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam stars are governed by Sun who is the lord of the 8" House. So, when a planet occupies any of these stars the native cannot have desirable results but unnecessary impediment and worries in his attempts may be experienced.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam stars are ruled by the lord of 7,
 Moon. If a planet occupies any of these stars at birth the native should be offered the results of the 7" house and not the matters signified by the house or sign.
 Mrigasirisha, Chithrai, Avittam ; Mars governs over these three stars. It also owns the houses 4 and 11 to Makara borns. If you find any planet occupying any of these stars, then the native will have the results signified by the lordship of the 4" and 11" houses.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathayam : Ascertain the strength of Rahu by noting the constellation and sign which it occupied. The results indicated by the lord of the constellation will operate whenever a planet moves on, in the stars ruled by Rahu, the Dragons’s head.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi : Jupiter rules the houses 3 and 12 and also these three stavs. Whenever a planet occupies any of these stars or transit through these, then the native will have results of the 3 and 12" tiouses.
Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi stars governed by Saturn also rules the 1% and 2" houses to Makaram borns. If the astrologer find planets in these stars, he has to offer the results indicated to the lordship of the 1* and 2"¢ houses to the native.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi : Mercury is given these stars and also houses 6 and 9. Planets in the stars of Mercury give the results of the 6" and 9" houses. For example, Jyesta is in the 11"
 Sign. If'a planet moves on in this star instead of enjoying the results indicated by the 11" house, the native will have the results of the 6" and 9" more prominently.

 AQUARIUS BORNS
 Ashwini, Makam, Moolam stars are governed by Kethu who does not own any sign in the Zodiac. Find out in which constellation and sign Kethu is Judge what Kethu can do. That will be given by the planet in any of the three stars.
 Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam : Venus governs over these stars, which also rules over the 4" and 9" houses. When a planet occupies any of these stars at birth or during the transit, the native should be offered the results indicated by the 4" and 9" houses only.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam stars are allotted to Sun. 7" house results will be experienced by the native if a planet move on the constellations ruled by Sun, as Sun, happens to be the lord of 7. Uthram in the 8" sign, Uthradam in the 12" sign do not offer the results of the 8" or 12" house but gives only the 7 house results.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam : Moon the other luminary governs over these stars which owns only the 6" sign to Kumbha- borns. Hence, the results signified by the 6" house has to be predicted to the native if a planet moves on through these three stars.
Mrigasirisha, Chithrai, Avittam : Mars the governor of these stars rules the 3 and 10 houses to the Aquarius-borns. So, when a planet is seen in any of these stars, you portend the results allotted to the 3°° and 10" houses to the native.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha : Rahu, the Moon’s North Node rule over these asterisms. Find out the strength of Rahu by its occupation of the star and Rasi where it was at birth. The results due to lordship of the constellation and sign where Rahu was, will operate when a planet transits in Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha.
 Punarpusam, Visaka, Poorattathi are ruled by the benevolent planet Jupiter who also owns the 2% and 11" houses. So, the results indicated by the 2"¢ and 11" houses will be enjoyed by the person if a planet moves on in the stars of Guru, in whatever sign it may be.
 Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi : Saturn lord of 1 and 12 happen to own these stars. Results denoted by the 1% and 12% house will operate if a planet occupies at birth or transits in the three stars governed by Saturn.
 Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi ; Mercury lord of 5 and 8 rules over these stars. Results of the 5"" and 8" houses also should be predicted to the native if a planet passes through them. For example, Revathi is in the 2" house. General prediction of the results if a planet transits in the 2"? house will do good to native does not operate but the results of 5 and 8, i.e. mixed ones will be experienced, when a planet moves on in Revathi.

PISCES BORNS
 Aswini, Makam, Moolam ruled by the descending Node.
 Kethu, who does not own any house in the Zodiac. We have to “ascertain the strength of Kethu by its occupation in the constellation. The results denoted by the lord of constellation and sign where Kethu was at the time of birth, will predominate.
Bharani, Pooram, Pooradam ruled by Venus who also happens to be the owner of the 3 and 8" houses to Pisces — borns. Results signified by the houses 3 and 8 will operate if a planet occupies the constellation of Venus when we consider, the horoscope.
 Krithigai, Uthram, Uthradam are governed by the lord of 6.
 Sun the strong luminary. The astrologer has to offer the results of the 6" house while predicting if he finds any planet in the stars owned by Sun, at birth or while it transits.
 Rohini, Hastham, Sravanam : Moon, the night queen owns these three stars. It also governs the 5" sign. So portend the results allotted to the 5" house when a planet passes through the constellation of Moon. For instance, Rohini is in the 3° sign to Pisces. When practically seen during the period of the planet in Rohini, the native enjoys the results of the 5" house and not the results indicated by the 3¢ house.
 Mrigasirisha, Chithrai, Avittam are governed by Mars, lord of 2 and 9 to this rasi-borns. Matters signified by the 2"? and 94 houses alone will be enjoyed by the querist while a planet moves on in the stars owned by Mars, in whichever sign it may be.
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha : Rahu who does not own any sign governs these stars. Ascertain in which constellation and sign Rahu is. The results indicated by the constellation and sign where Rahu is, will operate if a planet would have occupied that star during its period.
 Punarpusam, Visakam, Poorattathi : Lord of 1 and 10 rules over these stars also. The results indicated by the houses 1 and 10 will operate during the period of the planets that has occupied the stars governed by Jupiter either at birth or when in transit.
 For example, Visaka is in the 8" sign and Poorattathi is in the 12 sign. If you notice any planet in these stars, general prediction of the 8" and 12" houses where the planet, will fail but the results of 1 and 10 will operate.
Pushyam, Anuradha, Uthrattathi : Our sages allotted these three stars to Saturn, who also was given the 11" and 12" houses to Pisces. If a planet were to occupy any of these stars, either at birth or during transit, it will produce the results of the 11" and 12" houses only and not the results of the houses in which it is.
Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revathi are governed by Mercury. Mercury owns the 4" and 7" houses to Pisces. Hence, results of the 4" and 7* houses alone should be declared when you find a planet in the constellation of Ashlesha, Jyesta and Revathi either in the horoscope made for the time of birth or during transit.
 Always judge, who is the Lord of the constellation: Note to the native, what it can offer. Those results indicated by lord of constellation will be enjoyed during the period of the planet in that constellation and whenever a planet transits in that star, through the source indicated by the planet in the star.

 Sign : A sign is one of the 12 equal divisions of the zodiac.
 Each sign has its own characteristics and, the planets occupying such signs offer results modified by the characteristics of that sign. The strength of planets is judged by noting the sign occupied by it - whether it gets exalted or debilitated; whether it is
 Swakshethra or vargothamamsa or in friendly quarters or enemy's camp, etc. The planet in a sign is the source of the result which it bestows according to the lord of the constellation in which the planet was tenanted. The nature of the results which the planet gives includes whether the planet is in a positive or negative sign; in a fiery or earthy or airy or watery sign; in a movable or fixed or common sign, in a fruitful or a barren sign; in mute or voice sign; in violent or human sign; in a bestial or dual sign etc. All these must be taken into consideration before judging what a planet can do. The Rasi occupied by a planet indicates the strength of the planet.
Star: |n every sign, eventhough there are only 2 1/4 constellation, yet the lords will be three in number. A planet in any of the constellations will be under the sway of the lord of the constellation. Therefore, a sign is divided into 3 major divisions.
 If asign were to indicate many results it is classified into 3 groups by the 3 constellations. For example, Taurus is ruled by Venus and all the results indicated by Venus coupled with an earthy, fixed and negative sign are attributed to Taurus. But in the same sign, there are 3 constellations called karthik, Rohini and
 Mrigasira. Kartik is ruled by Sun, Rohini by Moon and Mrigasira by Mars. Therefore the result indicated by Taurus are classified into 3 groups; a part of it is governed by Venus and Sun (Karthik
 Star; if a planet were to be between 0° and 10° of Taurus at the time of the birth or at the time of the query or when a planet transits between 0° and 10° of Taurus, its results are modified by
 Venus and Sun). The second part is under the influence of both
 Venus and Moon. (Rohini Star 10° Taurus to 23° 20 Taurus). The results indicated by the planets in this area are under the influence of Venus and Moon. And the third part is governed by Venus and
 Mars; those matters signified by both of them are grouped together and the planets occupying 23° -20' to 30°. Taurus will be influenced by Venus and Mars. The matters signified jointly by them will be offered by the planet occupying the star or transiting in this area. Therefore, instead of giving many probabilities according ‘o the sign, the three constellations divide them into three groups.
 Sub : As regards the sub, it is the 9 divisions of each constellation in the proportion in which they are allotted total number of years in Vimshottari dasa. What results the lord of the sign and the lord of the constellation jointly indicate are again divided into 9 groups. Therefore the sign Lord, the star Lord and the Sub Lord reduce the number of probabilities to be chosen for prediction. Such subdivision is found necessary not only to differentiate the results indicated by two planets but also the cusps inthe same constellation. For example, twins are born; one having its meridian in Venus sign Taurus in Moon Star-Rohini and in the
sub of Saturn. This person deals in Petrol. But, the next born will have his Meridian in Venus sign Taurus in Moon star-rohini and in the sub of Mercury. This brother deals in Cotton and Silk products. Let us take another example. One of the twins born with Meridian in 21° Leo is an educationist and an advocate.
 Because the Meridian has fallen in Leo ruled by Sun in
 Poorvapalguni Star governed by Venus and in the sub of Jupiter who indicates Law and Education. But the other twin whose
 Meridian was in 27°is a Medical gentleman because this point in the zodiac in Leo is owned by Sun, in Uttrapalguni Star governed by Sun and also in the sub of Sun. Thus twins born at an interval of a few minutes having the lagna in the same sign at different degrees, the position of the planets in the same degree, experience different results. While joining the College, one gets admission in the Law college whereas the other studies in Medical
 College and later their profession also is entirely different. Third example: Twins were born, one in 7° 41’ in Moon sign cancer,
 Saturn Star Pushya and in the sub of Kethu, the other twin was born in 12°-20' in Moon sign Cancer, Saturn Star Pushya and in the sub of Mars. The earlier born in Kethu sub died immediately after birth whereas the 2™ born lived long. No doubt, the second born had a fragile constitution in youth and later he picked up.
 Therefore, even though a constellation may indicate many results, it is the sub which decides which of them applies to an individual.
 Aconstellation extends to 13°-20’ whereas a sub extends between 0°-40' to 2° 13-20”. Therefore the broad prediction indicated b) a.constellation is specifically defined by the sub. A person m have his Meridian in 23°. If we take only the sign for the predictio! for their processing we consider the sign Aries and its Lord Mars, the navamsa lord, etc. But if we include the constellation, then we take into our judgement both the planets Mars and the Lord of the Constellation Venus who rules between 13°-20’ and 26°-40"
 Aries. But if one uses this sub, then one finds, that a person has his Meridian in Mars sign, Venus Star and Jupiter sub whereas the other person has meridian in mars, sign, Venus Star, Saturn sub. Both are Sanitary Inspectors. One works in Animal
 Husbandry Department who has his meridian in Mars sign, Venus
Star, Jupiter Sub, as Jupiter is the chief governor for production and progeny whereas the other is working in the slaughter house where animals are killed, as Saturn the sub-lord is the Karaka for “Death”. So, a person causes production of animals whereas the other causes destruction of them. Hence health, disease, longevity, education, profession etc., can be clearly and correctly © predicted only when the sub is included.
 If it is not taken into consideration, an astrologer is to predict that a person may deal with quadrupeds. He cannot say as to whom of the two is in animal husbandry and who in the slaughter house. A third person having his Meridian in 15°-50' of Aries thus having it in Mars sign, Venus star, sun sub works as Veterinary
 Surgeon. To clearly indicate the profession, one can find that the sub serves useful purpose and gives correct and clear prediction.
 This alone is needed.
 Suppose planets A, B, C and D are in Sagittarius (Dhanus) between 26°-40' to 30°.
 Dhanus is ruled by Jupiter.
 Longitude 26°40’ to 30° is governed by Sun. The star is
 Uthrashada.
 Both rasi and Navamsa are Dhanus.
 The modification to the planet A, B, C and D is the same according to our ancient science. But according to Krishnamurti
 Padhdhati Planet ‘A’ which is between 26°-40’ and 27°-20’ gains strength or gets weakened according to the sign. Dhanus ruled by Jupiter, the planet ‘A’ instead of giving results according to its nature and lordship, offers the results indicated by the lord of the constellation Sun. The lord of the constellation may indicate many matters. But the lord of the sub, eliminates many of them and specifies a particular matter. Planet ‘B’ in between 27°-20' and 28°-26’-40” is in Jupiter’s sign, Sun’s star Uthrashada and sub of
 Moon.
Planet ‘C’ in between 28°-26’-40" and 29°-13'-20"is under the sway of Jupiter-lord of the Sign, Sun, lord of the star and
 Mars lord of the sub.
 Planet ‘D’ in between 29°-13’-20" and the enc <f the sign is in Rahu sub, the sign lord and star being Jupiter and Sun respectively.
 Therefore one can note that hundreds of professions are
indicated by the sign-Sagittarius-Dhanus. But if we take constellations, each represents a few dozens of them. Sub exactly
fixes the profession.
Therefore, he who has the planets, A, B, C and D and if he runs ‘A’ dasa, he will then be magnanimous, reliable, honest, serve in Education Department or bank or be a physician.
 But when he runs the period of the planet ‘B’ “> may be a politician or benefitted by a politician then, if it is a benefic.
 When he runs the period of the planet ‘C’ he may be a civilian in Military, Defence Department, or an orator or a mayor or a minister.
 Planet ‘D’ may authorize him as one of the visitors of jails.
 Thus the planet within these 3°-20' has to indicate many varieties. When the sub is applied, one can eliminate most of them and pinpoint on very few items which alone is helpful to the querist.
 If one gives a list of appointments assigned to a sign just like the server presents a large number of items in a ‘Menu’ card ina hotel, what a task it is to make further selection. Specific ones are needed in those days, just like one wants to know the special dish of the day.
 Suppose there is a planet in a sign. Then, the planet is the source of light. It indicates the source of a result which a native enjoys by its nature, ownership etc.
 If the planet is significator of 1, he gains by his own efforts and influence. If it is significator of 3, through brother or publication, he gains or loses, depending on the sub. If it is significator of 4, through mother or the matters signified by the 4" house, he has that result. If it is significator of 5, through speculation, music or children he enjoys the result. Thus the planet who transits or the planet whose period is running, shows how one gets the result, how a result is brought about, etc.
 The sign indicates the extent to which one can enjoy as it shows whether the planet is strong or weak in that Sign.
 The lord of the constellation is that which shows the nature of the RESULT, i.e. in which house, the lord of the constellation is
deposited and the house or houses it owns. Then the matters signified by those houses will manifest.
 Suppose the lord of the constellation owns the houses 3 and 10, i.e. Mars to Aquarius-borns or Venus to Leo-borns and they are occupying 3 house from Aquarius or Leo respectively, then the planet in Mars constellation to Aquarius-borns or that in
 Venus constellation for Leo-borns shows that one corresponds, interviews or makes a short journey for a job. Then the favourable or unfavourable sub denotes whether he is successful or not.
 When? It will be during the conjoined period of the planet, star lord and sub-lord.
 Suppose a planet transits in a sign, e.g. take Jupiter.
 According to the principles available one cannot definitely state when one can have its beneficial results and also what result one can expect at a particular time. But by studying this book one can give correct prediction.
 Suppose in a small post office, one posts, say, 44 letters, All the 44 are put in one bag. So the contents indicate 44 places. If these are distributed into 3 bags, one may contain 19, the other 19 and the third 6. If there are 22 bags each for different places, these 44 will be distributed to the 22 bags on an average at two per bag. If one bag is missing, only now, it is easy for one to mention from the missing bag, to which places the letters belong.
 If all are thrown in one bag, one can say, that two of the 44 are missing and it is not possible to specity. If they are distributed in 2 bags, even then, it cannot be specified. But if it is distributed to 22 bags, (22 subs in one sign) it is easy to pitch up.
 Further, a planet in the sub of an evil pianet, indicates loss, difficulty or failure whereas the same planet, in the same star, but in the sub of a benefic, promises success, gain and pleasure.
 The lord of the constellation may indicate the matters of the 7” house. The planet in the sub of a malefic causes enmity whereas that in the sub of a benefic brings in harmony and happiness.
 Also, the planet in the sub of an evil one threatens loss in litigation whereas that in the sub of a benefic indicates victory eventhough
the constellation lord denotes litigation. If a planet indicates business, the stars governed by this planet show business and the planet in beneficial sub promises profit whereas that in the sub of an evil one threatens loss. The lord of the constellation may show any one walk of life to the native. It is the sub which decides whether that area is advantageous or not and thereby indicates whether the planet occupying or transiting therein will offer desirable results or adverse ones. ,

SIGNIFICANCE OF EACH SUB
The Zodiac is divided into 27 constellations and each constellation is subdivided into 9 parts. This subdivision is called “SUB”. In this Textbook wherever SUB is used, it means one of the 9 divisions of the star.
Each star indicates many matters and when a prediction is to be offered, taking into consideration a planet and its situation in a constellation, one has to give many alternatives and hence the prediction will not be of much use to the querist. But if the sub is also included then, one can eliminate many of them and select a very few, out of the many indicated by the constellation.
What each sub indicates is given below

ARIES
1. Mars, Kethu, Kethu: (0-00-00)-(0.46-40). Always injury
 Scar in the head, congestion in the brains, epilepsy, Coma, worries about enmity, jealousy, abortion, Military, machinery. 2. Mars, Kethu, Venus: (0-46-40)-(3-00-00). Service, headache, trance, eye trouble, eruptive fever, worried about ladies, not his own, Venereal affection, Railways, Industry,
 Slaughter house, Butcher, Horse rider, jockey. 3. Mars, Kethu, Sun: (3-00-00)-(3-40-00). Faintings
 Cerebral anaemia, Reddish sore eyes, Severe headache on one side, Thrombosis, Veterinary surgeon, Criminal, Court, Jail, copper, Barren, Effeminate.
4. Mars, Kethu, Moon: (3-40-00)-(4-46-40). Congestion in the brains, boils, dispute in the family, Hysteria, Neuralgia, boilers,
 Steamboiler, Railways, Cerebal Haemorrhage, Insomnia, Worried about landed property and cultivation-poor yield.
5. Mars, Kethu, Mars: (4-46-40)-(5-33-20). Accident, Scar in the head-Haemorrhage, epilepsy, dispute, violence, Military,
 Police, Industry, Independent, Managing Director.
6. Mars, Kethu, Rahu: (5-33-20)-(7-33-20). Note what Rahu denotes to a person. Irritable, quarrelsome, diseased-Military Jail,
 Criminal Jail, Police Department, dogbite, Rabies, fear of black magic, litigation and landed property.
7. Mars, Kethu, Guru: (7-33-20)-(9-20-00). Brave,
 Congestion in the brains, malaria, meningitis, manager of factory, bank agent, religious endowment, executive officer, Criminal
 Session Judge.
8. Mars, Kethu, Sani: (9-20-00)-(11-26-40). Scar in the head, Small pox, boils, injury, Cerebral operation, coma,
 Insomnia, Filarial fever, Severe headache, Section Officer, Maistry,
 Iron, Steel Factory, Mine or land owner-Barren, abortion, false pains, irregular monthly periodicity.
9. Mars, Kethu, Mercury: (11-26-40)-(1 3-20-00). Epilepsy,
 Violence, Spasm, paralytic Stroke, quarrelsome, Petition writer,
 Typist, Mechanical Engineer, Land, Building Broker-Barren, no child.
10. Mars, Venus, Venus: (13-20-00)-(15-33-20). Amorous always fond of pleasure, chain smoker, injury above the eye, sportsman, deals in musical instrument, exhibition, maternity.
44. Mars, Venus, Sun: (15-33-20)-(1 6-13-20). Will carry out his affairs to the end. Magnanimous, Catarrh, injury around the eyes, dissipating habits, visual publicity, advertisement, railway, industry, Veterinary doctor, Criminal Lawyer and judge,
 Surgeon.
12. Mars, Venus, Moon: (16-13-20)-(17-20-00). Fond /of hot drinks, avaricious, wanting in character, clever, silk, cotton,
 Fertilizer, Tea, Coffee, Hotel, Agriculturist, Shipyard.
13. Mars, Venus, Mars: (17-20-00)-(18-6-40). Ever active very healthy, fond of pleasure, Venereal distemper, Syphilis, barber, Sportsman, dealer in silver vessels and eversilver vessels,
 Cinema theatre, Studio, Mansion for marriage, Venereal experts.
14.Mars, Venus, Rahu: (18-6-40)-(20-6-40). Aspiring, lowborn person, Leucoderma, Leprosy, Automobile Industry,
 Slaughter house.
15.Mars, Venus, Jupiter: (20-6-40)-(21-53-20). Indulges in pleasure, clever and happy, escapes from accidents, has higher studies, sits for competitive examination, Successful sportsman,
 Goldsmith, owner of theatres, animal husbandry judge, Income- tax Officer, Estate owner, Farms.
16. Mars, Venus, Saturn: (21-53-20)-(24-00-00). Lowborn,
 Mean minded, fond of other ladies, meeting with accident, ill repute, Veneral distemper, Catarrh in the head, Mucus, Noise to humour, lean due to gratifying one’s taste, Fertilizer, wrestler,
 Slaughter house, Mine products, Transport for mine, ores,
 Venereal expert, Agriculturist.
17.Mars, Venus, Mercury: (24-00-00)-(25-53-20).
 Wavering, author of books on Surgery, Maternity, and Sexual side, Engineering Contractor, Export import, Caterer.
18.Mars, Venus, Kethu: 25-53-20-26-40-00. Jealous,
 Diseased, Leucoderma , Syphilis, Poor vision, Catarrh, Veterinary
 Surgeon, Skins and hides, dealer in roots and pulps.
19.Mars, Sun, Sun: (26-40-00)-(27-20-00). Bold, active, dauntless, speculator, Plague, brain fever, Military, Police, surgical, defence department.
20.Mars, Sun, Moon: (27-20-00)-(28-26-40). Muscular body, Carbuncle, poxes, competitive mind, famous, pushful, acquires land, Navy, Travels, manufactures, Chemicals, Tonics.
21.Mars, Sun, Mars: (28-26-40)-(29-13-20). Robust health,
 Militant temperament, commanding appearance, argumentative ability, sharp fever, Malaria, eruptive fever, Cerebral Meningitis, injury, cut, accident, explosion, Match box, iron and steel vessels, war materials.
22.Mars, Sun, Rahu: (29-13-20)-(30-00-00). Leading temperament, eats much, attracted by others, wives, Plague,
 Filaria, Fire accident, burns in the body, Chemical Industry, Police, jail department.

TAURUS
23.Venus, Sun, Rahu: (0-00-00)-(1-13-20). Speculative tendency, selfish; eye-soar, Reddish eye, Photographer, wool dealer, works in leper clinics.
24. Venus, Sun, Jupiter: (1-13-20)-(3-00-00). Social generous, cheerful, Swelling above neck, victory over enemies, costly jewels and dress, international trade, music, artist, decoration, tax collector.
25.Venus, Sun, Saturn: (3-00-00)-(5-6-40). Selfish, dishonest, pimples, throat troubles, poor voice, loss by bad debts, drawing master, draftsman, sculpture, industry, wool dealer, hair dressers or export of hair.
26.Venus, Sun, Mercury: (5-6-40)-(7-00-00). Intelligent, cheerful, best fitted for business, creative mind, tumor in the knee, polypus of the nose, broker, representative of drugs and pharmaceutical, bill collector, engineer, Valuation officer, assessor.
27.Venus, Sun, Kethu: (7-00-00)-(7-46-40). Discourteous, ill repute, enimical, jealousy, cataract, nose trouble, photographic, veneral expert, Executive Officer, Religious Endowment.
28.Venus, Sun, Venus: (7-46-40)-(10-00-00). Speculative, mind, popular, prosperous, fruitful action, fond of company, benefit through Government, Realises bad debts, acquires jewels and dress, decoration, Poet, artist, silk, decoration, maternity, dance music.
manners, Sweet tongued, lovely appearance, dairy farm Milk,
 Scented Oil, Shipping, Sugarcane.
30.Venus, Moon, Mars: (11-06-40)-(11-06-40). Taste in instrumental music, arranges public functions, pleasant life in the company of other sex, Caters to the needs of the Public, hotel, lodging house, bar attached, Sandal wood, Navy, Cows,
 Dealer of pearls, or acids.
31.Venus, Moon, Rahu: (11-53-20)-(13-53-20). One is to note down the position of Rahu in the horoscope and judge which planet is represented by Rahu. Then the results or the sub of planet is to be taken for the sub of Rahu. But generally one is to take that Venus Moon Rahu shows no settled minds, Lacking in manners, lives on others, deals in plastic, dyes, tannery, fishermen.
32.Venus, Moon, Jupiter : (13-53-20)-(15-40-00). Appolexy,
 Swellings, Maternal affection, sympathetic, steady person, lovely appearance, Bakeries, shipping, Judge, Politician, Sugar and sugarcoated tablets. Very good for higher education, and high position politics.
33.Venus, Moon, Saturn : (15-40-00)-(17-46-40). Selfish, funky, mischievous, stealthy action, cough, cold, irregular menses, pains in the legs, Hotels with bar and all attached, petrol, oil, ice-cream, paint, submarine, tannery.
34.Venus, Moon, Mercury : (17-46-40)-(19-40-00). Tonsils,
 Cerebellum, tongue, goitre, sore-throat, can argue both the sides, enjoys nature, addresses public functions, at least vote of thanks:
 Broker, Engineer shipping, nurse, yarn merchant, pearls dealer, broker, contractor, clearing agent, water works engineer.
35.Venus, Moon, Kethu : (19-4)-00)-(20-26-40). Pimples,
 Quinsy, tumour, defective voice or mui», unsettled mind, always worried, fear complex, dealer in fruits, tannery, skins, hides, observer of vows, yogins, service in petrel products.
36.Venus, Moon, Venus : (20-26-40)-(22-40-00). Very beautiful, attractive, sweet tongued, humorous, fertile imagination, pain in the breast, swellings, cold, glass, plastic, dairy farm, petrol, oils, paints, shipping, aquatic animals, fishermen, wealthy person.
37.Venus, Moon, Sun : (22-40-00)-(23-20-00). Sore-throat, irregular menses, scanty bleeding, enjoys life in the presence of other women, reads light literature, bakeries, perfumeries, synthetic ones, acids, shipping department, Sugar industry, agriculturist.
38.Venus, Mars, Mars : (23-20-00)-(24-6-40). Inflammation of pericardium, inflamed tonsils, dexterity, excitable, industrious, indulges in sexual pleasure even against the will of the partner, selfish, deals in machines, automobiles, tailors, corals.
39.Venus, Mars, Rahu : (24-6-40)-(26-6-40). Mark in the cheeks, Jugular veins, dirty pimples, King’s evil, tobacco, snuff, taxi driver, hire purchase, cinema, sound engineer, photography.
40.Venus, Mars, Jupiter : (26-6-40)-(27-53-20). Beautiful cheek, less of hair growth, carotid arteries, adenoid, goitre, estate owner, exhibition, platinum, animal husbandry, apple and bananas income tax and sales tax department.
41.Venus, Mars, Saturn : (27-53-20)-(30-00-00). Injury in the cheek and chin, pain in the throat, weak loins, constipation, venereal distemper, polypus, Deals in lands and buildings, ever silver, dressmaker, estate duty, death duty, rickshaw puller, taxi driver, sandal powder, face powder, lethal chamber, slaughter house.

GEMINI
42.Mercury, Mars, Mercury: (0-00-00)-(1-53-20). Injury in the shoulder and defective vocal cord. Surfeit, most energetic, alert, dealing in tool, electrical goods, telephone, telegraph, building contractor, Radio, computers.
43.Mercury, Mars, Kethu : (1-53-20)-(2-40-00).Thymus gland, corrupted blood, fever, collar bone, Excitable Vitriolic in
their wrath, Tongues more poisonous than Rattle snakes, deals in surgical instruments, inechanical engineering, telegraph, dam site construction, thieves.
44.Mercury, Mars, Venus: (2-40-00)-(4-53-20). Vocal cord, throat, ears, itches, disorders in secret Parts, inflammation of pericardium, fractured femur, sciatica, quick, imaginative enthusiastic, sharp witted, wealthy, indulges in sexual pleasure,
 Ambassadors, Astronomers, Textile Engineer, Tape record, electronics, beasts, foresters, fruits, flowers, letter bearers, cables.
45.Mercury, Mars, Sun : (4-53-20)-(5-33-20). Shoulders
 Upper ribs, arms, excitable, fluent, eloquent, dexterity telephone, telegraph, electricity, surgeon, soldier, press publication, All India radio, surgical instruments. 46.Mercury, Mars, Moon : (5-33-20)-(6-40-00). Throat thymus gland, mental energy, impulsive, mischievous, disorder in secret parts, inflammation, boils, ambassadors, mathematician, bridge construction, salesman, broker, bus. 47.Mercury, Rahu, Rahu: (6-40-00)-(8-40-00). Septic throat,
 Eosinophilia, unsuccessful in literary pursuits, liar, ungrateful, sinful, atomic energy, research department. 48.Mercury, Rahu, Jupiter : (8-40-00)-(1 0-26-40). Septic throat, ear trouble, mums, ingenious, scholar, good character, reader, stock keeper, writer, explorer, finance broker, statistician. 49. Mercury, Rahu, Saturn : (10-26-40)-(1 2-33-20). Asthma,
 Puss in the ear education poor, hand writing expert, or committing forgery, finger print expert, physics. 50.Mercury, Rahu, Mercury : (12-33-20)-(14-26-40).
 Hicough, ear trouble, active mind, critical scholar, salesman, communication department, transport, aerial, atomic energy, writer, author, dynamics. 51. Mercury, Rahu, Kethu : (14-26-40)-(15-13-20). Septic throat, diptheria, jealousy, adulterer, thief, cruel minded,
 Pseudonymous, petition writer, ungrateful, no child birth, research department, deals in poisonous drugs, canned goods, gravitation.
52. Mercury, Rahu, Venus : (15-13-20)-(17-26-40). Septic throat, dry cough, ear trouble, ingenious, humorous, artist, sales man, post and telegraph department, transport, :adio, bus.
53. Mercury, Rahu, Sun : (17-26-40)-(18-06-40).
 Eosinophilia, pain in the shoulder, cruel minded, man versed in the art pertaining to boglings, holy, perfidious, atomic energy, research department, public appointment.
54.Mercury, Rahu, Moon : (18-06-40)-(19-13-20). Ear trouble, puss in the ear, asthma, intuitive, thief, boatman, deals in drugs, explorer, nurse, engineer.
55.Mercury, Rahu, Mars : (19-13-20)-(20-00-00). Septic throat, injury in the shoulder, critic, murderer, robber, rogue, mischievous, mechanical engineer, handwriting expert, finger print expert, police department.
56.Mercury, Jupiter, Jupiter : (20-00-00)-(21-46-40).
 Swelling in the ear, pulmonary apoplexy, broad outlook, proper judgment, true, rich, merchant, journalicm, story writing, advertising, religious, finance broker, mayor, astrologer.
57.Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn : (21-46-40)-(23-53-20). Injury in the shoulder blade, inflammation, pain the ear, iodine deficiency, infiltration in the upper lob of the lungs, worldly wisdom, sincere, servant, insurance agent, messengers, postman, woolen merchants, provision dealers.
58.Mercury, Jupiter, Mercury : (23-53-20)-(25-46-40).
 Hiccough, asthma, active mind, ingenious, scholar, salesman, book seller, high official, competitive examiner, auto, research scholar, public appointment, service in the head of the department registrar, astrologer.
59.Mercury, Jupiter, Kethu : (25-46-40)-(26-33-20).
 Pleurasy, Pneumonia, Pulmonary apoplexy, poor judgement, abortive tendency, no peace of mind, worried, religious, interpreter, secretary, astrologer.
60.Mercury, Jupiter, Venus : (26-33-20)-(28-46-40).
 Bronchitis, Arins disorder, good memory, proper judgment, well disposed, intelligent, rich, easily contented, inspector, poet, auditor, civil judge, civil engineer, Tamil pandit, clothier.
61.Mercury, Jupiter, Sun : (28-46-40)-(29-26-40). Throat affected, pain in the ear, broad outlook, clear in sight bronchitis, eosinophilia, advertising, visual publicity, judge, Income-tax inspector, auditor, registrar, deputy secretary.
62.Mercury, Jupiter, Moon : (29-26-40)-(30-00-00).
 Pleurasy, Pneumonia, good memory, correct intuition, merchant, estate broker, finance broker, politician, mayor, councillor, schoolmaster, interpreter.

CANCER
63.Moon, Jupiter, Moon: (00-00-00)-(00-33-20). Lungs, breast, Lacteels, dropsy, beriberi, corrupt blood, jaundice, Fertile imagination, honest, true, forgiving temperament, resourceful, sympathetic, banker, advocate, judge, traveller, sailor, dealer in fluid, nurse, midwife, water supply, Tuberculosis.
64. Moon, Jupiter, Mars: (00-33-20)-(01-20-00). Pancreatic gland, Mammae, diaphragm, Beriberi, irregular appetite, corrupt blood, liver complaint, gourmandize, appreciates beauty, effective argument, good vitality and fertility, politician, born a prince, banker, physician, religious head, statistics, judge, professor,
 Manager of Public conveyance.
65. Moon, Jupiter, Rahu: (01-20-00)-(03-20-00). Stomach, oesophagus, Thoracic, stomach upset, T.B., dyspepsia, reliable, resourceful, compassionate, politician, economics, Principal
 Sailor, dealer in fluid, Salesman, female official, Jail for women.
66.Moon, Saturn, Saturn: (03-20-00)-(05-26-40). Lungs ribs, T.B. obstructions, cancer, eczema, pyorrhoea, economical, contemplative, patient, persevering, deals in kerosene, canals,
 Jailer, tunnels, works in submarine, driver.
67.Moon, Saturn, Mercury: (05-26-40)-(07-20-00). Both lungs affected, Nausia, Phthisis, dyspepsia, Self-reliance, systematic and intelligent action, position of trust, barely, Canals, water works engineer, Pumping set dealer, constructing bridges, kerosene agent.
68.Moon, Saturn, Kethu: (07-20-00)-(08-06-40). Gallaping, tuberculosis, Belching, scurvy, Jaundice, pyorrhoea, fisherman, deals in mine products or agricultural lands, plumber, grave digger.
69.Moon, Saturn, Venus: (08-6-40)-(10-20-00). Bruises in the breasts, cough, eczema, prudent, careful, liked by all, wealthy, petrol, petroleum products, trenches, Engineers and draftsman, constructing dams.
70.Moon, Saturn, Sun: (10-20-00)-(11-00-00). Ulceration in the respiratory-system gallstone, methodical action, attains position of trust, learner, mine ores, copper, Sexten, those who work underground.
71. Moon, Saturn, Moon: (11-00-00)-(12-06-40).
 Tuberculosis Nausia, obstructions, attentive, Contemplative, fisherman, kerosene, agricultural, digging wells, constructing tanks and impounded reservoirs, those working in the night.
72.Moon, Saturn, Mars: (12-06-40)-(12-53-20). Ulceration in the respiratory system, injury in ribs, gastric ulcer, bruises in the breast, Petroleum products, coal, lands excavations, Canals, trenches, tunnels.
73.Moon, Saturn, Rahu: (12-53-20)-(14-53-20). Galstone, tuberculosis, hiccough, agriculturist, Jailer, grave digger, dealer in oil. 74.Moon, Saturn, Jupiter: (14-53-20)-(16-40-00). Gastric trouble, Ulcer on the breasts, Jaundice, economical, conservative, liked by all, learned, wealthy, virtuous, agriculturist, hold position of trust, works in the head of the department, deals in mines.
75.Moon, Mercury, Mercury: (16-40-00)-(18-33-20). Both the lungs and the stomach will be defective. Gas forming in the stomach will push the diaphragm up and breathing will be difficult,
 Vitamin B deficient, hysteria, quick wit, versatile, mimicry, clown, fond of travels, hypocrite, agent, commerce correspondent, dealer in yarn, ink, water diviner.
76. Moon, Mercury, Kethu: (18-33-20)-(19-20-00). Hysteria, fear complex, dull liver, acquires other languages easily, failure, ungrateful, sinful, guide, hostess, midwife, nurse, plurality in everything.
77. Moon, Mercury, Venus: (19-20-00)-(21-33-20).
 Windiness, drunkenness, hypochondria, dropsy, imitates other, good in music, art, insincere, fond of honeymoon, picnic, other’s company, international trade, paints, ambassador, travelling, agent, midwife, hostess, nurse, very good painter.
78. Moon, Mercury, Sun: (21-33-20)-(22-13-20). Dull liver, poor digesiicn, constipation, jaundice, Textile Department, Nurse,
 Mental Hospital.
79. Moon, Mercury, Moon: (22-13-20)-(23-20-00). Cold, drunkenness, hysteria, dropsy, imitates others, mimicry, salesman, ink, artist, water supply engineer, textile engineer, midwife, versatile.
80. Moon, Mercury, Mars: (23-20-00)-(24-06-40).
 Flatulence, Nephritis, pain in the stomach, ulcer, corrspondent, manufacturer of ink, textile, travelling agent.
81. Moon, Mercury, Rahu: (24-06-40)-(26-06-40). Typhoid
 Vitamin ‘B’ deficiency, jaundice, phaent, copious in speech, fond of travel, insincere, sinful, ungrateful, good businessman, depending on the position of Rahu predict the profession.
82. Moon, Mercury, Jupiter: (26-06-40)-(27-53-20).
 Diaphragm, pancreas, liver, wind pressing the diaphragm, makes it difficult to breathe, dropsy, beriberi, good writer, learns art and literature, always travels, grateful, author of books, writer, international trade, commerce, banking, accounts, ambassador.
83. Moon, Mercury, Saturn: (27-53-20)-(30-00-00). Lungs, stomach, Vitamin ‘B’ deficiency, Pains in knees and legs, phlegm, deceitful, underhand dealings, water diviner, manufacture of ink, service in textile department, hostess, nurse.

LEO
84.Sun, Kethu, Kethu: (0-00-00)-(0-46-40). Disease in the heart, Palpitation, Giddiness, Congestion, chemical, Medical,
 Government, Security in service, Physician. 85. Sun, Kethu, Venus: (0-46-40)-(3-00-00). Spinal
 Meningitis, Syncop, Epilepsy, Swelling, Optician, Skin expert,
 Leucoderma, Leprosy, Transport, Automobile, Women & Children
 Hospital, Chemical. 86. Sun, Kethu, Sun: (3-00-00)-(3-40-00). Thrombasis,
 Sunstroke, Unconscious, Eye trouble, Medical, Hospital, Service,
 Permanency. 87. Sun, Kethu, Moon: (3-40-00)-(4-46-40). Boils,
 Thrombosis, Headache, Trouble in Aorta, Vena Cavae, Neuralgia,
 Shipping, Navy, Boilers, Regurgitation in the heart, confusion. 88. Sun, Kethu, Mars: (4-46-40)-(5-53-20). Epilepsy, Heart
 Disease, Locomotor Ataxia, Interspinal muscles, Spinal marrow,
 Dispute, litigation, Defence, Police, Industry. 89. Sun, Kethu, Rahu: (5-33-20)-(7-33-20). Note what Rahu indicates to that native. Disease, Blood Poisoning, Wrong
 Medicine, Black-magic, Meningitis, Dorsal Vertebra, Jail
 Department, Lethal Chamber, Fear, Depression, Disharmony. 90. Sun, Kethu, Jupiter: (7-33-20)-(9-20-00). Philosophical
 Religious, Cancer, Congestion, Enlargement, Regurgitation, Bank
 Administrator, Advocate, judge, Religious Endowment. 91. Sun, Kethu, Saturn : (9-20-00)-(1 1-26-40). Rheumatic fever,
 Rheuniatic heart, Affection of bony system, Chronic ailment, High fever, smallpox, position of trust, head of the department, factory, -copper, steel, mine, real estate, abortive, denial of children, irregular monthly periodicity, defect in generative system, homeopathy.
92.Sun, Kethu, Mercury : (11-26-40)-(13-20-00). Nervine trouble, Palpitation of the heart, Meningitis, Giddiness, Pestilence,
 Ingenia, Audita, petition, writer, typist, journalist, advertising — no issue, barren.
93.Sun, Venus, Venus : (13-20-00)-(15-33-20). Good complexion, beautiful, fondness for company, pleasure, generous, eye defect, mother or wife falls ill, gains money through business, speculation, social affairs, music, fine arts and chemistry.
94.Sun, Venus, Sun : (15-33-20)-(16-13-20). Most generous, amiable, affectionate, eye-defect, palpitation of the heart, bright disease, service in Hospital, Chemistry department, music, radio, women and children hospital, government service, stock exchange.
95.Sun, Venus, Moon : (16-13-20)-(17-20-00). Pleasure, sociability, comfort, impressionable, warm attraction, love affairs, disease of ovaries, enlarged tonsils, mucous diseases, service in cosmetics, navy, shipping, petrol refineries.
96.Sun, Venus, Mars : (17-20-00)-(18-6-40). Fond of pleasure, adventure, amorous, sports, music, instrumental, artistic, extravagant, wastes money, veneral diseases, cataract, good for advertisements, display, automobile, independent, chemical engineering industry, transport, surgical instruments, petroleum products, medicinal soaps.
97.Sun, Venus, Rahu : (18-6-40)-(20-6-40). Find out the position of Rahu. One is to find out the health and the profession.
 If Rahu were to be in Moon star Mercury sub one will suffer from brain disorder. So it is necessary for us to note down what Rahu can do and the result must be modified.
98.Sun, Venus, Jupiter : (20-6-40)-(21-53-20). Indicates that the native will have much bloods, obstructions, corrupt blood, fever, boils, tumours inflammations judge, income tax department, ladies college, women and children hospital, administrator in transport, animal husbandry.
99.Sun, Venus, Saturn : (21-53-20)-(24-00-00). Much afflicted by bad things or poison, weakness, pains in the duct, leather, skin, hides, physician for skin diseases , lethal, chamber, slaughter house, canning the non vegetarian food.
100. Sun, Venus, Mercury : (24-00-00)-(25-23-20).
 Troumblings, palpitation of the heart, pains in the back, nervous debility, sanitary engineer, chemical engineer, salesman for drugs.
101.Sun, Venus, Kethu : (25-23-20)-(26-40-00). According to the position of Kethu, one is to give the results.
102.Sun, Sun, Sun : (26-40-00)-(27-20-00). Generally healthy constitution, rapid recovery when ill, seat of affection, heart, spinal column, thereby causing palpitation, heart disease, spinal meningitis, sunstroke, disease of eye, brain fever, typhoid, ete.
 Permanent position in life, seeks highest position in commerce or Government, Managing Director, Chief Administrator, ruler, dictator, gets cooperation from subordinates, dauntless speculator, earnest lover, passionate, jeweller, precious metals, physician, medical department, police, cinema and games etc.
4103. Sun, Sun Moon : (27-20-00)-(28-26-40). Blood pressure, dropsy, eruption on faces, poxes, dysentry, boils, pusturation.
Service in shipping, navy commander, ship master, deals in liquids, tonics, marine engineer, mechanical engineer.
404. Sun, Sun, Mars : (28-26-40)-(29-13-20). Robust health, good appearance, fair complexion, hotty disposition, energetic, very violent, over optimistic, bold, unfit for subordinate jobs, always tendency to boss over others, wealthy, stock-exchange, loss in lottery, war material.
 Military or police, defence department, military high command, successful surgeon, pain in back, venereal distemper, gives landed property, higher education, frequent long journey.
Cardinal thrombosis or surgical aid, pain in the head, epilepsy, meningitis, injury in the head and chest, fits.
105. Sun, Sun, Rahu : (29-13-20)-(30-00-00). Leading tendency, disposed towards other's wife, plague, jail department, heart disease, giddiness, high fever, unpleasant domestic environments, palpitation, regurgitation.

VIRGO
106. Mercury, Sun, Rahu : (0)-(1-13-20). Careless about diet, abdominal diseases intestinal trouble, typhoid, cough due to gas, a little nervous debility, accountant in jail or in such department indicated by Rahu according to its position in horoscope, medical department, nervous system, designer, engineer, consultant, contractor for supplies to the abuve departments.
107. Mercury, Sun, Jupiter : (1-13-20)-(3-00-00). Flatulence, never careful about diet, overeating, defect in assimilation on absorbtive system, schoolmaster, interpreter, registrar, journalist, inspector of schools, banks, income tax office, revenue department, preacher of religion.
108. Mercury, Sun, Saturn : (3-00-00)-(5-6-40). Reckless about diet, eats anything and everything, tapeworm (it is only in those who take mutton) mines engineer, coal dealers, watchmen night workers. In press, they deal with lead, that is: linotypist. composer, handwriting expert, forgery.
109. Mercury, Sun, Mercury : (5-6-40)-(7-00-00). Nervous breakdown, ulcer in mouth due to ulcer in stomach, irregular intake of food at short intervals, writer, literature, literary people, interpreter, messenger, postman.
110. Mercury, Sun, Kethu : (7-00-00)-(7-46--40). Food- poisoning, diarrhoea, sprue. For profession see the position of
 Kethu in the horoscope and then predict.
111. Mercury, Sun, Venus : (7-46-40)-(10-00-00). Good diet, very active, good health, vitamin ‘B’ deficiency and gas formation.
 Dance, artist, worker, sweetmaker, confectionery.
112. Mercury, Moon, Moon : (10-00-00)-(11-6-40). Trouble in the intestine and also in the breast. Hypochondria (think while walking and imagine being ever sick), Chyle defective, avoid worries and discontentment, avoid alcohol, clearing agency (mostly shipping), textile, engineer in water works.
4113. Mercury, Moon, Mars : (11-6-40)-(11-53-20). Bleeding piles, irritation, ulcer in intestines, dealers in fluids, boilers, mechanical engineers, and marine engineers, those who manufacture printing ink (press ink). Agent to supply fish, prefers very hot drink and food.
114. Mercury, Moon, Rahu : (11-53-20)-(13-53-20). Predict according to the position of Rahu in the horoscope.
115. Mercury, Moon, Jupiter : (13-53-20)-(15-40-00).
 Overeating, diarrhoea, cancer in intestines, poor assimilation, (without Jupiter cancer cannot appear. Jupiter also always covers absorbtive system and gives excess, expansion fat etc.) Those who print for others, publisher, and gives royalty. Navy accountant, connected with port-trust and also manage in textile mill, cloth merchant or agent.
116. Mercury, Moon, Saturn : (15-40-00)-(17-46-40).
 Causes constipation, completely dries up, flatulence, pain , chronic disease, gas formation. Diggers (of wells, canals).
 Excavators, geologists, mine engineers. Those who are agents to supply liquid fuel to railways, Kerosene, diesel oil. Advisers to give courage to commit forgery.
117. Mercury, Moon, Mercury :: (17-46-40)-(19-40-00).
 Nervous breakdown, very poor digestion, very poor memory, feeling uneasy and restless, irregular timing for diet, disorder of bowels. Personal assistant, personal clerk, camp clerk, messenger, engaged orator (who are paid money for speeches),
 Engineer, salesman, midwife (moon for nurse and mercury for assistance).
118. Mercury, Moon, Kethu : (19-40-00)-(20-26-40). Predict after finding out the position of Kethu in the horoscope.
119. Mercury, Moon, Venus : (20-26-40)-(22-40-00).
 Excessive intake of greens, sweets, drinks, Round worms. Due to drinks upset of bowels, sugarcane juice rather all sweet juices, shipping, marine, textile engineers, manufacturers of glass or spectacles. Artificial textiles like silk (soft, bright, beautiful), painting on cloth.
120. Mercury, Moon, Sun : (22-40-00)-(23-20-00).
 Mechanical engineer, marine engineer, nurse in medical department, agent to supply goods to Government, Nervous department in a Hospital.
121. Mercury, Mars, Mars : (23-20-00)-(24-6-40). Ulcer in intestinal part, surgical aid needed, mostly duodenal ulcer, takes care of deit, typing, printing press, military accounts, mechanical or military engineer, mind to save money by blackmarket, attaches more value to money, finds fault with others.
122. Mercury, Mars, Rahu : (24-6-40)-(26-6-40). Note which planet is represented by Rahu and then whatever that planet and
 Mars and Mercury combination indicate is the result. Suppose the sublord is Venus, this combination is in GEMINI so the result will be given accordingly. Suppose sublord is Saturn then this combination is in VIRGO and result is given accordingly. This is the way how you should proceed in the case when node is a sublord of any combination in any sign of the Zodiac.
123. Mercury, Mars, Jupiter : (26-6-40)-(27-53-20). Mentally very quick, commercial instinct (Mercury-instinct, lord of 1 and 10), Jupiter (Bank Administration and lord of 4 and 7 and Mars industry) Good health. If Jupiter, the sublord is also a significator of 6" house, then only Cancer in old age .Profitable investment, automatic accumulation of money. Has own ideals in selecting a partner in business or wife/nusband. Publisher, accountant in a bank, vice principal, professor, administrative department in engineering, accounts or defence department. A person who goes round and round and preaches religion.
124. Mercury, Mars, Saturn : (27-53-20)-(30-00-00). Most
 Ss Ifish, gommits forgery, theft, black market, Health not good,
worms in intestines constipation, works very hard, miserly, feels shy in a crowd, avoids or shuns society. Good in mathematics, statistics, physics, dynamics, mines engineering, Hookworm, chronic disease, (finger print office, CID, CBI (for government service SUN should also be connected) If ascendant falls at this point he himself is a thief, forger and if 6" or 10" houses are connected then in CID / CBI department.

LIBRA
425. Venus, Mars, Mercury : (00-00-00)-(1-53-20). Care more for peace and pleasure and harmony. (Libra being for balance) mental equilibrium, Compares and contrasts, correct intuition. Brilliant, good health. Boring people by giving meticulous details. Very good to write and publish books. (Mercury to write and paper, Mars and Mercury to print), Hernea. Being 7™ sign of the Zodiac, business with partners as sublord mercury is for plurality, advises and assists hence a good adviser. Story writer,
 Venus for love and beauty and passion and the 7" sign hence good in love affairs. Mercury being wavering and lord of 12" to this sign, he never gives his opinion, keeps it secret and never makes selection. Uterus removal why, because this sign shows the part and sub lord Mercury being lord of 12 is for loss and
 Mars is to cut, hence removal.
126. Venus, Mars, Kethu : (1-53-20)-(2-40-00). To whomsoever KETHU represents in the horoscope that planet along
 Mars and Venus should indicate the result. Spines would be aitected.
427. Venus, Mars, Venus : (2-40-00)-(4-53-20). Level headed, dispassionate personal comforts, helps others, pleasant nature, fond of opposite sex, (Mars & Venus indicate greens) Venus shows eatables hence appendicitis due to eating of green vegetables etc., spend thrift, able salesman, popular. Business with partners. Why?
 Because Venus is lord of 1 and 8 (partner’s money and Mars lord of 2 and 7, your money and 1 and 6 show self and partner. Dealer in 2"4 hand goods (vehicles Venus and mars for 2"? hand goods and
their repairs). Venus being indicator of pleasantness and Mars lord of 2 and 7 (2" is for speech) so when both speak it is conversation hence pleasant conversationalist. Sincere, Enjoys in full.
128. Venus, Mars, Sun : (4-53-20)-(5-33-20). Ulcer in the urinary tract, lower abdominal region, Transport department (Sun for Government office, Venus for vehicle and Mars for authority, administration). Locoshed, military truck / van, magnanimous and sincere. Mars is for muscles and Sun for energy hence very good health. Such people should not employ opposite sex as their private secretary because they have no control. Here if the sublord Sun is deposited in the constellation of a planet in fixed sign then locoshed service as fixed is for service which gives fixed income. If it is deposited in the constellation of a common sign they fly, goes and comes back, if it is in movable sign then he leaves and takes that job. Movable sign shows business.
129. Venus, Mars, Moon : (5-33-20)-(6-40-00). Helps others, politician, fertile imagination, gentile, susceptible to all disease as there is no resistance, If moon is a significator of 6" house then difficulty in monthly period for Ladies. Satisfies the partner.
 Most lovable. If Moon is the sublord of 5" cusp, then sincere in love affairs.
130. Venus, Rahu, Rahu : (6-40-00)-(8-40-00). Whatever planet is represented by Rahu, that planet and the combination of
 Venus should offer the result, Venus and Rahu go in for not productive and barren hence birth control. Jupiter & Rahu is for birth control and if Rahu is connected with mars then they will have surgical aid to see that no more child is produced. Similarly see what other planets are connected with Rahu and predict accordingly.
131 to 138 : As it is done for Arudra, you can predict for each sub in Rahu star (Swathi) from 8-40-00 to 20-00-00.
139 Venus, Jupiter, Jupiter : (20-00-00)-(21-46-40). Health very good, spend thrift, beautiful and a charming figure, very generous and noble, always for plenty, if Jupiter is significator of
6" house then the diseases it gives is Cancer. Hernea, enlargement of glands in lower abdominal region. Judge, income tax / hire purchase, broker, money lender, professor in ladies college, cashier in ladies club. True and honest people, marries one who may love.
140. Venus, Jupiter, Saturn : (21-46-40)-(23-53-20). If Saturn is significator of 2, 7 and badakasthana then infantile mortality otherwise very good life with all comforts. Chronic (SAT) disease, kidney, loins trouble, internal part damaged hence uterus removed. Insincere, unreliable, Most diplomatic, hypocrite, Never an extreme, Selfish, self centered. Any subordinate in revenue department, bank, court, law, transport departments as Saturn is for servant, Jupiter for administration, Skin / hides merchant as Venus is for skin, Saturn for death, Jupiter for trade / shop. If
 Jupiter is significator of 2 house, he deals with money purse, 3 with gloves. 12 shoes and 7" belts. Hence supplier / manufacturer / shopkeeper dealing with these items.
141. Venus, Jupiter, Mercury : (23-53-20)-(25-46-40).
 Supremely intelligent. Very noble master for his servants, always- touring, pleasant conversationalist, enjoys life in full. Most lovable.
 Very good adviser — legal or Income-tax. Takes enough precaution (mercury) hence avoids diseases, especially epidemic. Able salesman, comedy/novel writer. Propaganda, publicity. If mercury is the sublord of 5" house then many children, or love affairs with many, Wealthy, Income-tax, high-court, AGCR, audit / accounts departments, twin birth, plastic, glass, mirror, engineers.
142. Venus, Jupiter, Kethu : (25-46-40)-(26-33-20). Kethu is for abortion, Faces difficulties, blackmailing, secret enemies, signs papers which he should not have signed and gets into trouble.
143. Venus, Jupiter, Venus : (26-33-20)-(28-46-40). Ever trying for peace, never quarrelling, proper judgement, correct action, good judge, assessment in Income-tax office. Transport or Loan department in a bank. Air travel / Airport as Jupiter is for
 Air, Ether, Akasa. Very good health, normally does not suffer from disease, everything takes easy and everything is prearranged
for him, has all comforts, becomes very rich. Neither with brother’ nor with neighbourer he will have peaceful life.
144. Venus, Jupiter, Sun : (28-46-40)-(29-26-40). Robust health. Very beautiful to look at, generous and magnanimous, chemical / drugs / pharmaceutical dealer, income tax, salestax, ievenue department, court, religious endowment, hospitals, (nurse-sun and moon for common cusps for this), Marries one whom he loves, Jupiter for development, sun and Venus a combination for social gathering. Security in service because of
 Sun (Steady, Stability).
145. Venus, Jupiter, Moon : (29-26-40)-(30-00-00). Nurse, midwife, Navy/shipping as moon is for liquid, water, politician because Jupiter and Venus are called celestial ministers, kidney trouble, bladder trouble, puss in urine if Saturn aspects; clubs, society, crowds etc. Administrative officer in petrol, liquids, refined oils. Moon, Sun and Venus being luminaries hence for vision, manufacturers of glasses, spectacles, mirrors etc. Moon is for business hence successful businessman.

SCORPIO
146. Mars, Jupiter, Moon : (00-00-00)-(00-33-20). Plumpy (Jup for fat) tall in figure. Very clever as Jupiter is for worldly wisdom, God's grace, Moon for mind and Mars for quickness, always optimistic, likes and dislikes strong. Disease in the bladder.
 For ladies, profuse bleeding during monthly period. Complex mood in love affairs, politics, banker, judge, vice principal as moon is for advice, Jupiter for education and Mars for authority, as also it is the 8" sign of the zodiac which shows him to be a family member of the institute / office he is employed in (7).
147. Mars, Jupiter, Mars : (0-33-20)-(1-20-00). Commanding (mars) appearance, sharp and curly hair. Muscular body (Mars) never mindful of obstacles because mars is for rash, dash and crash.
 Overcritical, self assertion, impulsive action. Get excited, quick recovery from disease as mars is for quickness as well as resistance and Jupiter is god’s grace. Veneral distemper. Prostrate glands.
Makes large money, No mind to save, fortune favours. Expects appreciation from lover. Keeps the partner in good cheer, Energetic.
148. Mars, Jupiter, Rahu : (1-20-00)-(3-20-00). According to the planet which Rahu represents in his horoscope, prediction should be made.
149. Mars, Saturn, Saturn : (3-20-Q0)-(5-26-40). Lean (Sat for emaciations) tall, appear older than age (sat for old, chronic, labour, idle etc) hence hardworking, gossip, funky (sat for no courage), never interfering with others. (Scorpio being the sign of sexual organ and watery also) hence piles and ovary diseases, scanty flow of monthly to ladies. Very stingy (scorpion), Miserely (Saturn), Mine and its products (Sat for underground), metals.
 As Saturn is for underground material and Scorpio is a Mars sign for lands and estate so also Saturn therefore, deals with agricultural estate and specifically for under ground bulbs like potatos, onions, carrots, turnips, groundnut etc., lacks sympathy from lover.
150. Mars, Saturn, Mercury : (5-26-40)-(7-20-00). Long nose (mercury), lean (Sat) thin chin (Sat lord of 3 cusp for this lagna), ever wavering because of Mercury. Never idle because of Mars and Saturn and Mercury lord of 8" and 11" and 8" is for labour. Resourceful (Mars for authority, power, Saturn for confidence, trust and mercury for talk, contact) successful bargain. Mars and Mercury for forgery in talk and documents and Saturn knows no law. Service in fingerprint bureau, CBI, CID if meridian falls at this degree but if ascendant falls at this point then he himself a fifth columnist, spy, Saturn is always for stone and bone hence diseases he would have are gravel, stone in bladder, adenoids, (Mercury for paper), inspection, accounts, plurity and being lord of 8 and 11, Mars lord of 6" house keeps more than one account to hide black money from government / partner in business etc. Gives expression to his attachment to the lover but wavering (Mercury), fluctuating bank position that is when 2" cusp falls at this position in Scorpio then mercury is lord of 12 which shows expenses etc..
151. Mars, Saturn, Kethu : (7-20-00)-(8-6-40). Predict according to the planet which is represented by Kethu in his horoscope.
152. Mars, Saturn, Venus: (8-6-40)-(10-20-00). Good health, robust, veneral distemper as Scorpio denotes sexual organ and Saturn a chronic, Mars for boils and Venus kama hence ever dreaming other sex. Impulsive due to Mars, appears to be plain due to Venus but Saturn who knows no law and Mars is force, therefore actually he is not. Venus for Kama, Saturn for secrecy, Mars for force and therefore very loose in character, pleasant (due to Venus lord of 12) expenses. Sympathetic.
 Enjoys all comforts. Drinks much (Scorpio is a watery sign, Mars and Saturn for intoxication and Venus also for liquid. Service in slaughter house as Scorpio is 8" sing. (sign of death) and Saturn is also there to kill and Mars to use sharp weapon and also lord of 6" for service. Venus for skin, Saturn shows killed skin that is hide, Mars is for tanning hence tanning of leather/skin/hides.
 Eversilver, meat shop again Mars to use weapon (sharp) and
 SAT to kill and 8" sign is for death. Also grave digger Scorpio for grave and Saturn is to dig and Mars for sharp metal, that is spade or any other such type.
153. Mars, Saturn, Sun: (10-20-00)-(11-00-00). Healthy body, steady due to SUN, gets irritated due to Mars and Sun.
 Interested in psychic (8" sign) subjects. Never follows old custom,
 Deals in wool/hair dealer as Mars is for trade and also to cut,
 Saturn for hair. 8" sign being a generative organ hence only when SUN is significator of 6" house. Sun is for Govt.. Dept.,
 Saturn for under ground metal hence dealer in mines and metals.
 Mars for authority, Saturn for death and Sun for Govt. Dept., hence
 Death Registrar. Saturn for Secrecy, Mars for Police, Military and authority, power and Sun Govt. hence CID, CBI departments of the Govt., Blackmailing.
154. Mars, Saturn, Moon: (11-00-00)-(12-6-40). Good personality, broad face, medication/concentration as Moon is lord of 9" Interest in mysteries of nature when 12” cusp falls here.
Lazy due to lame Saturn and puts off things to the last moment.
 Proper intuition, prompt action, Puss (Moon - liquid and Saturn -
 Puss and Mars - boil/cut etc.,) Gnorrhea, chronic ailment. Renal stone (Sat for stone) Miserly, Moon for liquid Saturn for under ground and to pierce through it for boring/excavation etc., hence petrol, oil tank or well excavator. A little reserved, funky, partner leaves when Ascendant or lagna falls here. Steady in love affairs.
155. Mars, Saturn, Mars: (12-6-40)-(12-53-20).
 Independent (Mars) Arrogant and revengeful (Mars) Intelligent, never mindful of obstacles, muscular body (Mars), good personality. If sixth cusp falls here then bleeding piles. (Mars for blood and boil and Saturn shows a chronic disease and Scorpio sign shows the part of the body.) Saturn for stone, bladder shown by the sign hence stone in bladder. Saturn is Yama, to cause death and level by piercing through the ground, Mars is for land and machinery hence bulldozer/tractor to plough and also level the ground/fields, Also all implements used to pierce the land like spade etc., Saturn also shows filth hence to lay pipes for drain and sullage underground. Saturn is through the ground and hidden and Mars is also for roads and building hence a hidden road is a tunnel. Proves to satisfy the partner. Deep meditation, working in cremation / burial ground. Scorpio is 8" sign (for death,) grave digger; Saturn is through the ground, to dig and also to do labour or service. Officials in Secret Police because Mars is for police, SAT for secrecy. Gallows, Jail,
 Causality ward, Scorpio 8" sign to show danger and injury by
 Mars. Bone fracture because Saturn is for bone. Remember 6" and 8" show disease and danger 6 and 10 for the doctor who cures that disease.
456. Mars, Saturn, Rahu: (12-53-20)-(14-53-20). As Rahu indicates so shall be the prediction.
457. Mars, Saturn, Jupiter: (14-53-20)-(16-40-00). Well- built body, clever, good imagination. Manager / administrator, owner of mines. Philosopher (SAT). Interest in Psychic subjects / Will not accept any theory. Non-interfering Analytic, thoughtful
and resourceful. Steady in love affairs and never a cheat JUPITER when sublord and a significator of 6" cusp, it gives CANCER.
 Incurable disease in the sexual organ denoted by Scorpio.
158. Mars, Mercury, Mercury: (16-40-00)-(18-33-20). Long nose, clever, over critical, sharp in intelligence, quick grasp, versatile, good lawyer / actor / salesman / Representative / liaison officer. Revengeful due to Mars. Typist, Proof Reader, Press (as
 Mercury is for paper, fype, print, publish and Mars is for machinery.)
159. Mars, Mercury, Kethu: (18-33-20)-(19-20-00). As per
 KETHU you may offer the prediction.
160. Mars, Mercury, Venus: (19-20-00)-(21-33-20). Beautiful, muscular body, marine engineer, good personality, intuitive, frank and plain. Fistula, complicated disease, veneral distemper, makes large money and spends much also. Fortunate, sympathetic, expects appreciation from partner. Most comfortable life, smooth life. Works in Power House, Sanitary
 Engineer, Bridge construction. Lays bricks for lakes. Railway bridge construction. Tailor, readymade cloth, Goldsmith.
161. Mars, Mercury, Sun: (21-33-20)-(22-13-20). Military
 Engineer, Mechanical engineer, Adviser, Healthy, round face, intelligent, steady [Methodical, rational, practical, Quick recovery.
 Steady income and Steady expenses. No fluctuations, steadiness in love affairs. Govt. Press, Mint. Reserve Bank / incinerator to destroy currency notes. Mercury is for paper and print and currency and Mars a fiery planet to set fire to it. Sun and Mercury indicate notes and 8" sign is for death. Epileptic (MARS and
 MERCURY for fits), violent hysteria as MARS is for violence.
162. Mars, Mercury, Moon: (22-13-20)-(23-20-00). Very healthy body, changeability due to Moon. Crossing floor. Fistula, bleeding piles. Fisher in rectum. Moon & Mercury for textile, electric engineering, powerhouse engineering, boiler and its inspector. Ink, (Mercury to write, Moon the liquid and Mars for ribbon) dye, bridge / construction contractor.
163. Mars, Mercury, Mars: (23-20-00)-(24-6-40). Well built body, short and curly hair, intense feeling, emotion, self-assertion, impulsive action, surgeon, stone, in bladder, kidney, Surgical aid for the womb/ovaries. Extravagant, ever borrowing, purchases doubly (in multiplicity, each item in plural numbers). Mechanical engineer. Press technology, Iron Bridge construction using girders. Swinging bridge, suspension bridge etc., Cost accountant, Inspector.
164. Mars, Mercury, Rahu: (24-6-40)-(26-6-40). Typhoid, warden/superintendent in Jail. Apart form this any other result given by that planet which Rahu represents.
165. Mars, Mercury, Jupiter: (26-6-40)-(27-53-20). Hale and healthy, stalwart. Talkative, versatile. Meditation (preacher and not practising philosophy as JUPITER is to preach and
 SATURN to practise it). Income-tax officer, auditor, chartered accountant, Press Manager, Administration Department of engineering. Head in postal department. Tele, cable and all forms of communication. Incurable disease-cemplicated disease.
166. Mars, Mercury, Saturn: (27-53-20)-(30-00-00). Eyes deep set, long nose, no cheek at all. Mercury is for both sides,
 Saturn is for emaciation. Injury in hip bone. Chronic piles. Stone in bladder. No comfort of bedding. No good furniture. Great interest in mysteries of nature. Philosophical. Can meditate, concentrate, pray and also hypnotise others. Forgery master.
 Handwriting experts. Service in press. Mines engineer., Metal dealer. Stenographer MARS & MERCURY for typing and SATURN to shorten. Deals in lead (SATURN), drainage, sewerage.
 SATURN for cold, ice and watery sign also hence frigidaire. MARS and MERCURY for mechanical engineering.

SAGITTARIUS
167. Jupiter, Kethu, Kethu: (00-00-00)-(00-46-40). High eyebrows and bushy hair. KETHU is for hair and abortion and this sign being dual in nature it may be two abortions and also it may be still born child and only delayed menses and no child, at
all. Bold, greedy, God fearing, Karma yoga, lung trouble, hiccough, asthma, physician, speculation, spends much, cares more for society than for family life. Allows much freedom to wife.
168. Jupiter, Kethu, Venus: (00-46-40)-(3-00-00). Well proportional body, beautiful, enthusiastic and energetic, sincere, true, honest, diabetes, earns by fair means, no black money, cares equally for society and for wife.
169. Jupiter, Kethu, Sun: (3-00-00)-(3-40-00). Well developed body, broad eyes, aspiring, ambitious, honest good vitality, good health, quick recovery, bank, education, revenue, religious Departments, steady in love affairs.
170. Jupiter, Kethu, Moon: (3-40-00)-(4-46-40). Timid, lack of confidence, plumpy body yet charming appearance, wavery, lacks decision, changeability, leading to T.B., Politics, bank-export, long journey, change of residence, lacking morality, cannot be relied upon in love affairs.
171. Jupiter, Kethu, Mars: (4-46-40)-(5-33-20). Well proportioned body, muscular, optimistic, bold, dauntless, over confident, invalid children, eosinophilia. Blood poisoning, surgeon, makes plenty of money and equally spending it.
 Speculation fails. Abortion, wife enemic, impulsive. Neither integrity nor morality. Manager / Director / traveller makes fortune in a foreign place.
172. Jupiter, Kethu, Rahu: (5-33-20)-(7-33-20). Find out significators of Rahu and Kethu and offer the prediction accordingly.
173. Jupiter, Kethu, Jupiter: (7-33-20)-(9-20-00). Well built body, commanding appearance, ambitious, confident, enthusiastic, never gets disheartened, lumbago, trouble in lungs,
 CANCER, earns by fair means, false prestige, donates much, revenue, religion, college, physician.
174. Jupiter, Kethu, Saturn: (9-20-00)-(1 1-26-40). High and bushy eyebrows, lean, beautiful, poor vitality, lazy, lethargic,
failures, obstacles, fracture in hip, rheumatic pain, asthma philosopher, black money, speculation failure, miserly, beneficial friends, very jealous of others, keeps accounts of other’s money, , suspicious about wife / partner in business activities / character.
175. Jupiter, kethu, Mercury: (11-26-40)-(13-20-00).
 Graceful look, beautiful, lacking decision, versatile, crossing of floor, affection of lungs, asthma, earns by all means. Many accounts to hide black money. Successful speculation, gains through partner in business, interest in games. Gives freedom to his wife. Accountant, author, revenue/bank, teacher, journalist, astrologer.
176. Jupiter, Venus, Venus: (13-20-00)-(15-33-20). Very handsome, well proportioned body, charming appearance, graceful look, victory over enemies, becoming more and more confident, sincere, not wavering, diabetes, gains in speculation, lottery, Midwife, good in business, profitable, true to wife.
177. Jupiter, Venus, Sun: (15-33-20)-(16-13-20). Round face, broad eyes, good complexion, energetic, good vitality magnanimous, hiccough, long journey, higher studies, success in competitive examinations, steady income, profitable speculation, true to wife, integrity and morale.
178. Jupiter, Venus, Moon: (16-13-20)-(17-20-00). Plumpy body, ear trouble, puss in ear, little, timid, fears unnecessarily, diabetes, T.B., slow recovery, unreliable, many love affairs, makes money by all means. Satisfactory income, speculation, failure, false prestige. Petrol pump, deals in rubber and milk.
179. Jupiter, Venus, Mars: (17-20-00)-(18-6-40). Well developed body, graceful look, commanding appearance, most enthusiastic, greedy, courageous, stealthy mind, quick recovery from disease. Vomiting blood, loss by speculation earns by all means, most extravagant, temper flares up. Both husband and wife very free. Most social, person of non-integrity and no morals,
 Automobile, transport, auditor, income tax officer, agent of bank, principal of a college, religious head.
180. Jupiter, Venus, Rahu: (18-6-40)-(20-6-40). Predict according to the planet RAHU signifies.
181. Jupiter, Venus, Jupiter: (20-6-40)-(21-53-20). Plumpy body, charming appearance, tall, gigantic figure. very fair complexion, bold, pushful, overconfident, GODDESS, fearing, most religious, traditional, conventional, law abiding, true, sincere, most enthusiastic and optimistic, quick recovery , CANCER in lungs, earns by fair means, possesses estates but broker in estates if 7" cusp falls here. Man of sterling character. Most harmonious wedded life, affectionate, Judge, assessment officer, estimate officer, architect, designer, good in art, music drawing,
 Animal Husbandry, breeding and expanding, Manager, choultry to feed others, minister, Popular, successful politician.
182. Jupiter, Venus, Saturn: (21-53-20)-(24-00-00). Very fair but lean, Asthma, fracture of hips of bones. A man who has no sperms zoospermia hence barren and cannot produce children. Also cannot satisfy the partner in life. Stealthy connections slaughter house, abortions, mine and its products, transport, draftsman (SAT and VENUS for drawing), statistics, intelligence department in the Revenue department, enforcement staff in foreign exchange (Mars also must be connected). Very mean in love affairs. Blackmailing, Writing anonymous letter.
183. Jupiter, Venus, Mercury: (24-00-00)-(25-53-20). Long nose, impressive eyes, charming appearance, changing ideas, very bad subordinates as PA/PS/peon if the ascendant falls in this position. Railway engg., accountant, auditor, income tax, vice principal, vice chancellor, All India Radio (propagating and giving information etc.). JUPITER & MERCURY for journalist,
 Mercury for music. Engineering, transport, income tax and
 Revenue departments, Assistant, deputy, joint, additional secretary or secretary himself, mint, currency, asst. editor.
184. Jupiter, Venus, Kethu: (25-53-20)-(26-40-00). Find out what KETHU signifies and predict accordingly.
185. Jupiter, Sun, Sun: (26-40-00)-(27-20-00). Plumpy body, round face, commanding appearance, physician, medical
department, highly qualified, foreign qualification, quick recovery from disease, much of vitality. In Reserve Bank, Government
 Colleges, nationalised banks, ever progressing, prosperous, no invalid child whereas in JUPITER, KETHU, MARS combination invalid child only when MARS is sublord of 5" cusp and lord of 5 and 12.
 That is, for SAGITTARIUS Lagnas, MARS is lord of 5 and 12.
186. Jupiter, Sun, Moon: (27-20-00)-(28-26-40). Graceful look, fair complexion, changeability, never steady, never friendly with parents, hates relatives, slow recovery from disease, lung trouble, unsteady in love affairs, politician, minister, export/import, foreign trade, foreign assignment higher education, sudden death, interest in games and society.
187. Jupiter, Sun, Mars: (28-26-40)-(29-13-20). Well proportioned body, Commanding appearance, fair complexion, over optimistic, avaricious, energetic, injuries, venereal distemper, high fever, fracture of arms, officer of Govt. service, success in competitive examinations. Speculation failure, lawyer, judge, agent, love affairs with high-class people.
 Waste of money, overseas, fortune in a foreign place, divorce, cheat, industrialist, principal, chief judge, manager of a bank,
 Animal Husbandry.
188. Jupiter, Sun, Rahu: (29-13-20)-(30-00-00). You have to see the planet connected with RAHU. And then offer the prediction.

CAPRICORN
189. Saturn, Sun, Rahu: (00-00-00)-(01-13-20). Predict according to the planet represented by RAHU. Rahu represents jails and this being a 10" sign, his profession may be connected with jails, 190. Saturn, Sun, Jupiter: (1-13-20)-(3-00-00). If ascendant falls here then the fellow should be magnanimous, materialistic, true, honest and sincere. Not thin and lean but fatty as JUPITER is for fatty bulky. Religious minded as SUN denotes uplift of soul,
Saturn for concentration and JUPITER for religion. In Education
 Department, a philosopher, SUN for medical, JUPITER for progeny, SAT for science, hence biology department also.
 Religious preacher, fond of change. JUPITER being lord of 3 and 12 for this lagna Agent/representative, touring job. wnen 2” cusp falls here then Jupiter is lord of 1 and 4, receipt of money through agriculture and teaching , professions. When 4" cusp falls here
 JUPITER is lord of 6 and 3 and SUN lord of 11" house, gains through agency. Not good relations with his neighbours. When the 5" cusp falls here, then JUP is lord of 4 and 7, SUN lord of 12 and SATURN lord of 5 and 6", hence children birth in, hospital under doctor's care. Speculative gains through estate broker ship.
 When 6" cusp falls here, it is definitely service in a bank (Nationalsed or Reserve/State). As it is the movable sign and for 10" also, In a reputed bank with name, fame and reputation.
 Famous politician, economist, educationist, religious head or its cap, JUPITER lord of 5 and 8 Cancer in the knee and bone emaciation of fat at that part. Chronic gout, if 8" cusp falls here, then JUP is lord of 7 and 10 shows business in partnership. Ever changing place because it is a movable sign and JUPITER is lord of 3 and 12. SUN being lord of 8" , would meet with obstacles, 1,2,3,8 and 12 being the houses conjointly denoted by this combination, issue of cheque to the neighbour younger/brother/ sister is indicated. As far as name, fame and reputation shown by 10 sign of the zodiac are concerned, because of 8 and 12, loss of all this. No honour, no award. SATURN gives position of trust, Sun for Govt, Jupiter for religion, Education, Revenue, Law etc. also administrator, therefore, MLA, MLC, MP etc. but not a minister as Mars being absent he can’t have any authority, Service in high-court, judge, education or revenue depts. Or religious endowment boards. Honest, municipality, health/sanitary inspector, councillor. If JUPITER is significator of 6" cusp then
 CANCER in breast/lower part of lung or dislocation of knee cap etc., Timid partner promised with gains.
191. Saturn, Sun, Saturn: (3-00-00)-(5-6-40). This - combination denotes 1, 2, 8. Ever in danger, SATURN, a death
inflicting cold, chronic planet, chronic disease, structure of bold bones, Bushy eyebrows and profuse hair growth. Dealer in hair, cement, metals, geologist. Archives, monuments antiques etc.
 CID, CBI. Thin and lean, dishonest, cheat. Sun for meditation and Saturn for concentration, therefore concentrated meditation.
 Disease would be chronic due to SATURN, only when the 6" cusp falls at this point. It can be bone fracture at the knee joints etc. or fracture of ribs of breast, collapse of heart or lung, eosinophilia, pneumonia.
192. Saturn, Sun, Mercury: (5-6-40)-(7-00-00). If Ascendant falls here then MERCURY is lord of 6 and 9. Saturn is for unlawful, science, geology, bones, stones, cement, chronic etc. and SUN, lord of 8". Tall, chronic sickness, fake currency, Gains from foreigners/father, long journeys, CID, CBI Depts, P & T Dept,
 Business in partnership. Nervous debility, speech affected, Talks less, underground tunnel/communication. Liar, Astrologer. Export of hairs, cough, chronic asthma, orator, Govt., secret propagandist, Govt. Publications. Scientific adviser to the Govt. heart attack. Inheritance of willed property of a stranger or father.
 Labour in IAC.
493. Saturn, Sun, Kethu: (7-00-00)-(7-46-40). See which planet is represented by KETHU and then offer the result according the combination thus formed in the zodiac, sign, star and sub. Kethu is abortive and confusion creating planet. Infantile death, congestion in the heart and its collapse or uncertain heartbeat are the resultant effects.
494. Saturn, Sun, Venus: (7-46-40)-(10-00-00). Sun and
 Venus for Air India and Saturn for Labour hence labour in the Air
 India. Chronic skin diseases, deepset eyes. SUN & VENUS for social, Saturn to hide hence wants loneliness and away from the crowd. Unsocial, Saturn for secrecy, Venus for passion, so secret passions, love affairs, Venus being lord of 5 and 10, gains from speculation with other's money (8"), skin/hide dealer. Sweet in talk but reserved, thin and lean but beautiful: Govt. transport dept.
 Chronic disease of skins at breast/patella, kneecaps etc., eatables
which grow underground like potato, groundnut, turnip, etc. Very popular.
195. Saturn, Moon, Moon: (10-00-00)-(11-6-40). Timid, ever changing, wavering, short life if MOON is also connected with
 Badhakashthana. Never successful in first attempt, disappointed and trading mind, adaptable. Puss in the knee or congestion in the knee gout or dislocation of the knee cap/joint. Water in the lower part of the lung, pessimist, business with partner. Partner also timid. Very thick and thin with each other. Bony structure, thin and lean, Ice, Business in cement, hair. Sanitary/sewerage dept.; or electricity dept. in a municipality/corporation etc.
 Devastating storm, Disease in the chest/breast specifically puss in any part of the breast. Broken rib, Electronic dept.
196. Saturn, Moon, Mars: (11-6-40)-(11-53-20). Muscular,
 Susceptible to accidents/injuries when moving in a vehicle, Wool dealer, emaciation of the muscles of the knee cap. Blood poisoning/clotting in the heart etc. Agriculture, tea estates, intoxicating liquids. Popular, Military/Police, dealer in second hand goods, bicycles. Gains from lands and estates and also from transport. Boring equipment. Agricultural implements. Deficiency of red blood corpuscles. Success in litigation/examination. This 10" sign being movable popular, minister, building contractor, railways, estate broker. This earthy sign makes the native move only when that act would give him some benefit otherwise not.
 Partner, may be working girl. Hire/purchase of furniture etc.
197. Saturn, Moon, Rahu: (11-53-20)-(13-53-20). The same tule for nodes should apply here. Delayed ambition. Disappointed mind and pessimist. Confused, Service in Jail dept.
198. Saturn, Moon, Jupiter: (13-53-20)-(15-40-00). 1,2,7 and 3 and 12 are the houses shown by this combination.
 Repayment of loan, dangerous life leading, loss to the native and gain to the partner, Partner in danger and sick. Frequent tours/short journeys or changing of the house, Loss of prestige.
 Pujari in a Mandir/Masjid or Gurudwara/Church Eminent judge, educationist, propagandist, publicity officer. Religious head.
Revenue Department dealing with death/estate duty etc. If
 JUPITER is the significator of 6" cusp, if 6" cusp falls here, then
 Cancer in the lung.
199, Saturn, Moon, Saturn: (1 5-40-00)-(17-46-40). Deadly
 Saturn and Moon combination, as MOON is lord of 7 and SATURN gives life as well as is prepared to take it out also being lord of 1 and 2. Thin and lean, a bony structure Secretive and depressed mind, timid and distressed partner. Short life, Separation from the partner. Puss in the lung, injuries to knee or breast, emaciation of liquid in bones. Profuse hair growth on the head and breast.
200. Saturn, Moon, Mercury: (17-46-40)-(19-40-00).
 Coarse varieties of cloth merchant, accountant in agricultural dept. Sanitary engineer. Wavering mind, depressed mind. Tall gains from foreigner, father, wive’s younger brother. Writer of secret novels, weak nervous system. Bookseller, talkative, collation of secret information. Shuns crowd, Chronic mental case, only if MERCURY is a significator of 6" cusp.
201. Saturn, Moon, Kethu: (19-40-00)-(20-26-40). As per the rule applicable to nodes. Infantile death.
202. Saturn, Moon, Venus: (20-26-40)-(22-40-00).
 Speculative mind, Exchange broker, Beautiful eyes, deepset, profuse hair growth on eyes, head and breast, Petrol, oil, excavation. Business in cement, metal dealer. Soap, skin, hide dealer. Sexually lose. Happy, popular, musician, etc.
203. Saturn, Moon, Sun: (22-40-00)-(23-20-00). Short life, heart attack, eosinophilia, chronic headache, injury to knees and puss formed therein. Ever with obstacles danger to life. Slow and steady, Position of trust. Business in partnership.
204. Saturn, Mars, Mars: (23-20-00)-(24-6-40). Muscular body but thin and lean. Thief if lagna falls here but Police to catch the thief if SUN is also connected and the 6" / 10th cusp falls here. Repairer of old/ancient goods. Gains from land property and machinery parts. Death by attack from thief/dacoit etc. using sharp weapons etc. Dealer/manufacturer of weapons. Agricultural
equipment implements. Geologist, farmer, owner of landed
 Property. Labour on the farm. Sanitary attachment to the house.
 Fertilizer, success in agriculture acquisition of landed property, and gain there form. Success in education, examinations also (4811). Danger to your vehicle. Tractor/leveller, injury to knee, deficiency of red blood corpuscles.
205. Saturn, Mars, Rahu: (24-6-40)-(26-6-40). As per the rules of nodes, jail departmer* for thieves and decoits and law breakers.
206. Saturn, Mars, Jupiter: (26-6-40)-(27-53-20). Ever changing his permanent residence. Principal/Headmaster.
 Philosopher of name, fame and reputation. Department of
 Finance. Head of Police/Military/Finance Department, Religious endowment. Education Department Expenditure on younger brother. Acquisition of landed property, house, old furniture etc.
 If 6" cusp falls here then manufacturer/dealer in these goods.
 Old and repaired goods dealer.
207. Saturn, Mars, Saturn: (27-53-20)-(30-00-00). Weapons of stone age. Ancient and old weapon. Arms/Ammunition dealer or manufacturer. Liar, Thief/dacoit. Knows: no law and quarrelsome. Deals in lands and estates. Old hand goods or machinery dealer. Thin and lean but stout and muscular body,
 Liar, secretive, will not give his opinion. Successful in disputes.

AQUARIUS
208. Saturn, Mars, Mercury: (00-00-U0)-(1-53-20). Running pains in different part of the body, arthritis, rheumatism, disorder in the bowels. Mechanical Engineer, Mines Engineer, Industrialist,
 Death Registrar.
209. Saturn, Mars, Kethu: (1-53-20)-(2-40-00). Find out the
 Position of Kethu and Accordingly read. 210. Saturn, Mars, Venus: (2-40-00)-(4-53-20). Pains and swellings in the legs, knees, heart also afflicted. Deals in skins
and hides, manufacturer of shoes. Dealer in Antiques,
 Archaeology.
211. Saturn, Mars, Sun: (4-53-20)-(5-33-20). Blood inflamed, rains, disorder, Gravel, Stone, Strangury, Geology, Mine,
 Defence Department, disposes the dead.
212. Saturn, Mars, Moon: (5-33-20)-(6-40-00). Hysteria, boils, swellings, pain in the legs and also in secret parts.
 Excavation of wells, tanks, tunnels, pumpsets, dealing liquids.
213-221. Saturn, Rahu: (6-40-00)-(20-00-00). Note down the houses signified by Rahu and the planet with which it is connected. Accordingly, you have to read the results for 6 degrees 40 minutes to 20 degrees, in Aquarius. Refer to Arudra star in
 Gemini and you can predict like that for each sub in Rahu Star (Sathabisha in Aquarius). ~
222. Saturn, Jupiter, Jupiter: (20-00-00)-(21-46-40). Much of blood in the body and corrupt one, many diseases, Lumbago, hip pains. Philosopher, religion, teacher, banker, advocate, postmortem, Surgeon.
223. Saturn, Jupiter, Saturn: (21-46-40)-(23-53-20).
 Disorder in the head and teeth, defect in the ear, pains in the joints, swelling in the leg, bruises, sore-throat. Service, no independent business, college, Law Court, Schools, night school.
224. Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury: (23-53-20)-(25-46-20).
 Windy, pain In the body, daily changing from one place to the other, imaginative pain, upset of the digestive system. Journalist,
 Novelist, Editor and Publisher, Bank Agent, Estate Broker,
 Consultant.
225. Saturn, Jupiter, Kethu: (25-46-20)-(26-33-20). Note down the position of Kethu and Accordingly predict. 226. Saturn, Jupiter, Venus: (26-33-20)-(28-26-40). Due to excess, indigestion, pains, flatulums, appendicitis, also heart afflicted. Legal Adviser, Judge, Girls School, Drama, Cinema,
 Music. 227. Saturn, Jupiter, Sun: (28-46-40)-(29-26-40). Enlarged heart, palpitation, low blood pressare, gravel, physician,
Government Service, Inspector, Education Department, Legal,
 Steady income.
228. Saturn, Jupiter, Moon: (29-26-40)-(30-00-00). Epilepsy hysterical trouble, fits, lumbago, dull pain in the lower abdominal region, irregular menustruval complain. Politics, service in Bank,
 Srator, fond of travels, constant change, roaming about, love / romance.

PISCES
229. Jupiter, Jupiter, Moon: (0-00-00)-(0-33-20). Fair complexion, courteous disposition, Ever changing habits, unsteady, tries to lead a peaceful life, affable, hospitable, tries to avoid anxiety, reliable people, medium stature, fleshy face, full eyes, hair dark brown to black, passionate, mysterious in their way of doing things, love music scenery, like occupation that bring some kind of change or where attention to details and completeness is necessary, works in gardens, clothing, deals in fish, milk, etc., marine navy, (if Mars connected) liver trouble, tumor in abdomen, intestine over works etc.
230. Jupiter, Jupiter, Mars: (0-33-20)-(1-20-00). Bold, emotional, good health, Independent, Married life may be short (if Venus and Saturn are badly placed.) . Quick in understanding, inspirational, Independent auditors, ministers, judges, advocates, administrators, etc.
231, Jupiter, Jupiter, Rahu: (1-20-00)-(3-20-00). Predict as, per the position of RAHU.
232. Jupiter, Saturn, Saturn: (3-20-00)-(5-26-40).
 Imaginative, reserved nature, anxious, patient discontentment, economical, deals in corns, rich person,
233. Jupiter, Saturn, Mercury : (5-26-40)-(7-20-00). Stature more than average, medium complexion, imaginative, hospitable, intelligent, studious, learns without any instructor, traveller, mathematician, learn occult sciences, respects others, married life unhappy, often marries twice as first marriage ends in divorce,
suffers from malaria, round worms, hook worms, works as engineer, accountant in mines, statistics.
234. Jupiter, Saturn, Kethu : (7-20-00)-(8-06-40). Predict as per the position of kethu.
235. Jupiter, Saturn, Venus : (8-06-40)-(10-20-00).
 Diplomatic, selfish, chronic sufferers, damage to internal parts, works on administrative side in oil companies, petrol pump (if
 Mars is connected), disinfectants, condensers (if Moon connected).
236. Jupiter, Saturn, Sun : (10-20-00)-(11-00-00). Liberal, proud and generous, fond of jewels, works in government in any capacity like magistrate, goldsmith, mint etc. Suffers from
 Sunstroke, Rehabilitation.
237. Jupiter, Saturn, Moon : (11-00-00)-(12-6-40). Pale complexion, reserved person, cool temper, wavery and vacillating, obstruction of lymphatic circulation. (If Saturn and moon connected unfavourably) intestinal defects and diseases, varicose veins, constipation, complication due to excess of drinks, works as a mechanical engineer in water works, sewerage, sanitary inspector, deals in Kerosene, agriculturists, preacher of oil ideas, follower of tradition, serves in museum, stadium.
238. Jupiter , Saturn, Mars : (12-6-40)-(12-53-20). White complexion with a red shade, muscular, bold and courageous but not rash, impulsive or aggressive, patient, endurance, healthy, suffer from smallpox. (If mars/Saturn connected badly). One commits murder due to some provocation, ulcers in the intestines, hernia, appendicitis, mines, mine ores, leather, works as an engineer in Mines, mason, engravers, surveyors.
239. Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu : (12-53-20)-(14-53-20). Predict as per the placement to Rahu.
240. Jupiter, Saturn, Jupiter : (14-53-20)-(16-40-00).
 Healthy body, (if Saturn and Jupiter are afflicted) impotent, constipation, nausea and cancer, physician, broker of landed property, service in banks, scientific laboratories, political offices,
mines owners, societies, clubs, birth control appliances, propagandists.
241. Jupiter, Mercury, Mercury : (16-40-00)-(18-33-20).
 Optimistic, always in spirits, broad minded, versatile, slow in forming an opinion, but the decision is in-controversial, law, literature, contract with engineers, journalist, export, import, editing, civil engineer, mathematician, accounts, auditing, banking, good astrologer, (bad disposition of Mercury and
 Jupiter) brings out disputes, leading to litigation and troubles; suffers from vitamin ‘B’ deficiency, lack of enzymes, Dyspepsia.
242. Jupiter, Mercury, Kethu : (18-33-20)-(19-20-00). Predict as per the position of Kethu.
243. Jupiter, Mercury, Venus : (19-20-00)-(21-33-20).
 Cheerful, beautiful, handsome, many partners in business, social prestige, ever smiling, large hearted, will have many friends, liked by all, fond of fine arts and refinements, transport, deals in scented articles, painting, earns through music, radio, transistor, gramophone, jewellery, dress making, deals in rubber, opticians, stands surety for any body and never gets entangled. Affliction in the eyes, nervous disease, Hysteria, injuries may be caused by any vehicle, animals or birds governed by Venus. Cinema,
 Analytical chemist, Broadcasting.
244, Jupiter, Mercury, Sun : (21-33-20)-(22-13-20).
 Generous, courteous, cheerful in nature, social, feels pleasure in easy life, fond of company of opposite sex, art, music and poetry, if Sun and Venus in conjunction are placed in 5, 7 or 9” shows wife having some disease in generative system, If Sun’ and Venus have adverse aspect unpleasant domestic life is indicated (depends on other aspects) eye sight, heart disease, low blood pressure if afflicted by Saturn and high blood-pressure if afflicted by Jupiter, Cardiac thrombosis, sharp fevers, typhoid, epilepsy, sunstroke, chief engineer, accountant-general, publicity officers, inclination, to study astrology, astronomy, engineering, mathematics, ambitious, studious, capable and inspiring.
245. Jupiter, Mercury, Moon : (22-13-20)-(23-20-00).
 Average height, stout body hands, long and slender, dark hair with expressive eyes thin and shrill voice, often looks younger than one’s age, intelligent, fertile imagination, deep feelings, emotion (if moon and mercury are having bad aspect) lack of mental balance, indecision, spreads false rumors, suffers from over anxiety, frequently changes, learns many languages, short journeys, pessimistic imagination and intuition increases with the advancement of age, speculative, upset due to troubles in nervous or digestive system, by entering into a wrong contract public criticism etc. unhappy dealings with relatives. Persons suffer from eye trouble, asthma, cold, cough, colic pains, worms, typhoid, gastric, nervous debility.
 Serves in shipping department, water analysis or water supply department, deals in fish, perfumes, kerosene, milk, farmers, vegetable and fruit growers, an engineer in water works, novel writings, inspectors of accounts, internal auditors.
246. Jupiter, mercury, Mars : (23-20-00}-(24-6-40). Medium stature, healthy body, round eyes, waist narrow, lover of work, completes duties assigned quickly, never lazy or lethargic, has an ability to organise, humorous, ingenious, constructive, practical and business like, great mental activity and intellectual powers, impulsive and rash, gets irritated and irritates others also, suffers from fits, epilepsy, brain disorders, piles, fissure, disputer, litigation, risky venture, hasty decision leading to public scandal and criticism (if aspects are bad); serves in the accounts or audit department; military or mechanical engineering if aspects are good, person makes fortune by quick buying and selling, by becoming a broker, bad aspects make him loose through speculation, fraud, cheating ete., adding machine. If Mars or
 Mercury has any connection with significator or of marriage or partner in life, disharmony and manhandling of each other are indicated, Microscope, printer, post and telegraph.
247. Jupiter, Mercury, Rahu : (24-6-40)-(26-6-40). Predict according to the position of Rahu and the planet indicated by it.
 Work in jails as accountant.
248. Jupiter, Mercury, Jupiter : (26-6-40)-(27-53-20). Well built persons, in youth good growth, tall, stout, look younger than the actual age, clear thinking, forethought and good judgement, dealing in accounts, accountant in bank, advertising agent, auctioner, books, calendars, salesman, stationary, god fearing, law abiding, honest, religious minded, liberal, journalist, correspondent, good astrologer, administrative department in engineering, treasury, literature, commerce, suffer due to excesses, frequent heart trouble, liver complaints, jaundice abscess, dermatites, catarrharh and carbuncles.
249. Jupiter, Mercury, Saturn : (27-53-20)-(30-00-00). Thin built, pale complexion, person looks older than the age, eyes deepset, if mercury afflicted by Saturn produces ear troubles, fear complex, deafness (puss in the ear). If Moon also is afflicted then, defective speech, paralysis etc. Works as engineer, Old puran writers, Censor Department, short-hand writer (if Mars connected) stenographer, intelligence department, tale carriers: (If Venus connected) wood cutters, teachers, scientists, mines owner, landed properties, scientific laboratories, clubs, societies.

(SUB USEFUL FOR DETAILED READING)
(a) What each constellation signifies and (b) to each rasi born which constellation are beneficial and which are disadvantageous are to be understood first.
(1) A planet offers the results indicated by the lord of the constellation more predominantly than what it denotes by its occupation, ownership and nature. It is true that the expectations according to the occupation and ownership of a planet fail in many cases whereas certain events not indicated as above, happen which in full, agree with those foreshadowed by the lord of the constellation. Whenever there are planets in the constellation of the occupant or the owner, such planets deposited in the constellation offers the result. Occupants or owners do not offer the results of the houses but they offer the results of the lord of the Constellation in which they are deposited.
(2) When one carries on research, one comes to know that the constellation needs further subdivision. Such a subdivision is called “Sub”
 If the constellation is compared to the bed of the river then the ups and downs in the bed of the river is similar to the sub.
 The Thirupaur Kadal, i.e. the milky ocean was not genuine and unadulterated. It contained both the Nectar and the deadly poison.
 Similarly there are some portions (sub) in a constellation which are most beneficial to a person and certain areas in the same constellation which are disadvantageous to the same individual.
 This can be explained by taking an example. Suppose in one’s horoscope Mars and Venus are the two significators for one’s marriage. Mars governs the stars Mrigasira Chithrai ard
 Dhanishta; Venus rules the constellations Bharani,
 Poorvaphalguni and Poorvashada. Marriage proposal, negotiation, arrangement settlement, celebration, etc., can happen only when the significators transit in these constellations.
 But the sub in these stars show precisely which will be done during the period when the significator transits in a sub.
 Mars transits in Poorvaphalguni, Poorvaphalguni extends between 13°20' and 26°-40' in Leo. The first sub of 2°-13'-20" is allotted to Venus, Negotiation stars: Elders discuss, when mars passes on to the next sub, governed by the life giving
 Sun’s sub, they decide to proceed and fix up the marriage. When the significator moves to the next sub, allotted to Moon, the terms are further finalised. During the occasion when it passes in Mars sub, the marriage Pandal is erected; goldsmith is asked to prepare
 Thirumangalyam; silver and eversilver vessels are purchased; music is arranged. When Mars is in Rahu’s sub, invitation is posted. A few close relatives arrive. When it passes on in Jupiter's sub, Marriage is celebrated. Mars, during its stay in Saturn sub shows separation from close relatives, departure of guests, etc.,
 The couple is left alone without interference or disturbance. Mars
passes on the Mercury sub and the couple go on short journeys.
 It may be said as ‘Honey Moon’. Then followed the days when
 Mars in Venus star Kethu sub and they visit Vallabha Ganapathi’s temple. Thus, one of the significators transiting in the constellation of another significator indicates one particular affair. The sub in that constellation- shows how the above matter takes shape, its progress, étc., and how it materialises.
 Suppose a person has litigation in the court of law. Litigation will be indicated by a few plants in his horoscope. When a planet transits in a constellation ruled by the significator, it shows the various stages as it passes sub after sub.
 Let Mercury be asignificator denoting dispute. When a planet, say the other significator Saturn, transits in Mercury sub, the person gives lawyer notice. When Saturn transits in Kethu’s sub the person receives a rejoinder. When it passes in Venus sub, he tries for compromise. When it further proceeds and is in Sun’s sub, he files the suit. During the time when it is in Moon’s sub, summons are served. During the period when it passes in Mars sub, the judge takes up the case; both sides go on arguing till
 Rahu sub is over. When it moves in Jupiter’s sub the parties enter to a compromise. Thus, it will be seen that Mercury which indicates litigation, shows that when a planet transits in its constellation, it refers all about the litigation. But the sub mentions specifically and precisely the minute details of the matter and gives useful and correct picture.
 Suppose in the natal chart, there are two planets in one constellation, but one is in the sub of a beneficial planet and the other planet, is in the sub of an evil one. Then during the period of the planet, in the sub of a benefic, it gives success, whereas during the period of the planet in the sub of a malefic, it does harm in the same affair. If the lord of the constellation indicates married life, when a planet transits in favourable sub, one enjoys pleasure; if the same planet or any other planet transits in * unfavourable sub, results in displeasure though constellation remains the same.
Suppose one is born in Pisces with Rahu and Jupiter in the constellation Hastham ruled by lord of 5, Moon. Suppose, Rahu is in the sub of Moon itself and Jupiter is in the sub of Saturn in
 Hastham star. Then the lady will have a child born during Rahu
 Bhukthi and none in Jupiter’s sub period. Generally one will expect abortion during Rahu’s period and birth of child in Jupiter’s period, as Jupiter is the chief governor for children.
 Let one be born in Virgo with Jupiter in Poorvaphalguni star ruled by lord of 2 and 9, Venus; the sub, is that of Sun who owns the 12" house and Saturn is in the same star Poorvaphalguni but in the sub of Moon. Then during Jupiter’s sub period, the native goes on a long journey as sub of sun shows separation and life in a foreign place. That which is in the sub of Moon, lord of 11, promises reunion. Hence during Saturn’s sub period he returns home. Both the planets are in 12. Both are in the same constellation. Because the sub is different, the result is different.
 Aperson born in Aquarius purchases a car during the period of the planet occupying the constellation belonging to the lord of ie. 4, Venus (Poorvaphalguni) and the sub of Jupiter ruling 11" house, But, he disposes the same car when he runs the period of a planet in the same star but the sub of Mars which owns the 3" house. The constellation lord refers to an object. Acquiring it or disposing it depends on the sub.
 Thus, if one verifies, one can understand that the lord of the star shows a particular matter and the sub indicates the details about the same i.e. the success or failure; progress or not; whether one’s application is shelved or whether it is moving; that too favourably or unfavourbly.
 This is one of the important findings of
 Krishnamurthi system.
 Suppose one is born in Virgo. Moon and Mars are in the constellation of lord of 2, Venus. Moon is in Poorvashada star, governed by Venus (lord of 2) but is in the sub of Saturn (lord of 6). As 6" house is Vraya, 12 to 7 (7 indicating marriage) Moon
cannot give marriage. Mars is in the constellation of Venus, in
 Poorvaphalguni, in the sub of Jupiter. Mars is lord of 8, Yet it gives marriage. Therefore, it is not the lordship of a planet which is final decisive factor. The lord of the constellation shows which matter the planet signifies; what ever be the planet in that constellation, the matter signified will be the same. The sub lord shows whether the planet can be helpful or harmful, can bring success or cause failure; can delay or deny; cause union or separation etc. This method of prediction is indeed, a discovery.
 This alone comes correct. Tradition is no good: never useful; nor scientific. So tradition cannot be applied universally.

( BEHAVIOUR OF PLANETS )
 To make the book handy, this chapter is written in a concise form. One can find that different results are offered by the same planet as it occupies the constellation owned by those ruling different houses (Bhavas) in the chart. There are 12 houses and 27 constellations. These 27 constellations are governed by 9 planets. Therefore, a planet offers results after the corresponding modification due to its position in a particular constellation, which is ruled by planet governing certain house or houses in the chart.
 One should take the following delineations at the time of judgement.
 Whether the planet is strong or weak by noting the sign in which it is.
 Whether it is in a favourable and beneficial sub or in unfavourable sub.
 Whether it is conjoined with any other planet.
 Then nature of the planet whether it is a benefic or a malefic.
 Whether the sign occupied by the planet is fiery, earthy, airy or watery; cardinal, fixed or common; fruitful or barren, masculine or feminine; human or bestial; mute or voice; etc. and any house give the results as is changed by the constellation lord. What results are indicated by a planet in that star or while a planet
transits in that asterism. Suppose one is born in Taurus - Rishbaha
 Lagna, also suppose Sun is in Rohini, Venus in Mrigasira; Saturn in Ashlesha, Then Sun gives the results of Moon governing Rohini, owning 3" house to Taurus. Sun gives such results given under “Moon as the constellation lord of 3 Venus in Mrigasira governed by Mars owning the 7" and 12" houses. Hence Venus will give both the results given under “Mars as the constellation lord of 7 and Mars as the constellation lord of 12”. Saturn in Ashlesha, for
 Taurus born, will given the results given under “Mercury as the constellation lord of 2” and “Mercury as the constellation lord of 5” as Ashlesha is governed by Mercury.
 But, it is found, that the occupants are much stronger. So one is to note down which houses are occupied by each planet. If Sun occupies the 3% house to say, Aquarius-born one is to read the results given under Sun as the constellation lord of 7 and in 3; the results indicated by Sun in 3 will be more predominant than Sun as lord of 7. Both results will be enjoyed. Let us take another example, Suppose one is born in Virgo; Sun owns the 12 house; suppose it is occupying the 7" house. Then the results given under “Sun constellation lord (of 7 or) in 7 will predominantly operate.
 Also results given under Sun, constellation lord of the 12" house to Virgo born will be experienced . Thus one is to consider in which house a planet is posited.
 Thus, one has to analyses, blend and modify the indications.
 The following delineation is a general one.
 In our experience after a long research, it is found that a planet may occupy a house, for example, the 11" house; but the result offered by that planet during its dasa or bhukthi or anthra and at the time when it receives aspects from other planets is different, it causes loss and separation instead of profit and pleasure. But the result that is experienced is not the same as the house signifies. But one experiences predominantly the results of the bhavas, signified by the lord of the constellation in which the planet is posited in the horoscope. Therefore, the following results without any other modification are given for each planet owning different houses influencing the constellation lords
of the 12 houses. It will be helpful to the students to understand how a planet offers results, completely changed by the lord of the constellation and it is the lord of the sub which indicated whether the matter signified by the planet is advantageous or disadvantageous. It may be mentioned hereafter a planet as the constellation lord of 1 or 2 or 3 and so on. It means that the planet to that person, owns a particular house, either Lagna or 24 house or 3% house and so on. It governs three constellations.
 Any planet may occupy one of the 3 stars. So, this planet indicates the results of the lord of the constellation who may own one house cr two houses. Then give importance to the house occupied by the planet. Read the results given for that planet.
 Let us take a third example. Suppose one is born in
 Capricorn, Mars is occupying the 6" house. If a planet were to be situated in one of the 3 stars governed by Mars Mrigasira,
 Chithrai Or Dhanishta, then one is to read (a) Mars as constellation lord in 6 and (b) the results given under Mars, constellation lord of 4 and constellation lord of 11. Of these results the planets in the constellation of Mars will predominantly give the results of the 6" house. It also includes the other results given as the lord of 4 and 11.
 Rahu and Kethu will occupy a house. They govern the stars
 Arudhra, Swathi, Sathabisha, Aswini, Maka and Moola. So planets situated in these stars will offer the results as indicated by either Rahu or Kethu according to the house occupied by them. Further one should include the results of the lord of the constellation and then the lord of the sign in which Rahu and
 Kethu is posited, it is explained in the end of this chapter.
 Summing up the explanation, let me put all these in a nutshell.
 Note in which star a planet is; who is the lord of the constellation; in which house this lord is posited and to which houses he is the owner. Then read as follows; Lord of the constellation...... in... house (occupant). Lord of the constellation owing..... houses (lordship). All the results indicated will be experienced during the period of the planet situated in that constellation.
Gen)

SUN
 Sun governs the stars Karthigai, Uthrapalguni and—
 Uthrashada stars, Whatever be the planets and whichever house they own or occupy, they will, when situated in SUN’S star, will prodominanily offer results of the house, portrayed by sun only.
 Suppose one is born in Karkata Lagna and Sun is occupying
 Aries in the 10" house. A planet, whatever it may be, will bestow the results indicated by sun i.e. 10" predominantly, than Sun as
 Lord of 2. Suppose Venus occupies Karthikai star, then Venus gives the matters signified by 10" house more predominantly than the matters indicated by 2"4 house. Venus is the source to fulfil such matters, according to its own ownership, nature and occupation. By Sun in 1 or lord of 1 means if sun occupies the
 Lagna Bhava or if Sun happens to be Lord of Lagna, the results given under Sun in 1 or Lord of 1 are offered by a planet in Sun’s stars to all Lagna borns when, Sun is in 1 and to Leo borns when
 Sun is lord’of 1. Similarly a planet, in Uthrapalguni star will offer the results of the 5" house matters, whatever be the Bhava it occupies, if Sun is in 5, to all Lagna borns. Also the same results will be given if Sun is Lord of 5 i.e., for Aries lagna born alone.
 Therefore, the results that are given below as Sun in 1 or lord of 1 means that these results will be given by any planet, situated in any of the 3 stars of Sun viz. Karthikai, Uthraphalguni and Uthrashada when its period or subperiod runs. If it is said merely 2 or 3 or 4 it means a planet in the constellation Sun will give the results of the 2"? house matters when Sun occupies or owns the 2" house. By 3 it is meant that a planet will give the matters of the 3° house if it occupies the constellation of Sun and when Sun either occupies or owns the 3" house. Similarly for all planets one to read the results. Any planet in Karthik or
 Uthraphalguni or Uthrashada Stars will offer the results according the house occupied by Sun and also owned by Sun, as below.
1. Sun in 1 or lord of 1, Generous, determined, frank, dignity, independent, hopeful, good constitution, satisfactory immunity,
successful attempts, good relationship with officers, promotion, smooth life, defective vision, boastful.
2. Inheritance, gain by one’s Industry or through
 Government or holding responsible position. Generous, social, fond of sports and pleasure. If afflicted, loss of money, immoral life, nasty talk, extravagant and impulsive expenses.
3. Commands respect, bold, courageous, gains through relatives, good understanding with neighbours, success in agency, good for business, creative, victory over enemies, good health, reputation and honour. If afflicted, troubles, anxious, anonymous petitions, false reports, difficulties.
4. Realise ambition, purchase of property, land or gain through estate, inherits property. If afflicted, obstacles, troubles, difficulty in old age, blood pressure, undomestic envi.onments and loss of property.
5. Gains through speculation, children, amusement, cinema etc., During child birth difficulty. May go on journey to forest region, intestinal disorders. If afflicted, loss, rivalry in courtship, difficulty through love affairs and trouble with children.
6. Not good for health, weakness, gain through service, promotion, chemistry, medicine, hospital, heart trouble, organic trouble, intelligent, bold, victory over enemies, big family, self- esteem.
7. Success after marriage, magnanimous, determined, permanent attachment, popular, litigation averted by arbitration, compromise, gains through partners in business, if afflicted loose morals, late marriage, henpecked, travels, both partners character questionable; beneficial aspect shows virtues, two wives, illness to partner, venereal disease, defective vision, displeasure from officials.
8. Better luck after marriage, gains by partnership. End by self-sacrifice or any heroic action. improves vitality, contributes long life. Few children, if afflicted weak constitution, defective vision,
economical, violent end, in a female’s chart the husband passes away first, loss of wealth, immoral connection, litigation and poverty.
9. Religious, connection with colleges or legal department, gains through travels, desire to carry out research, success in overseas, sincere, constant in religious beliefs, self-reliance, increase in popularity, does meritorious deeds, success in attempts, much self-acquired properties.
10. Increase in income, improvement in status, honour, and authority. Independent, decent Inheritance, very steady improvement in business, profession, promotion, good vitality, possesses jewels, tactful, fond of music, arts, head of small society or village, success in political life.
11. Ambitious, fulfils one’s desire, respectful, loyal, honest connection with people in power, hopeful, permanent friends, social success, good business, many conveyance, unfriendly with politicians, principled.
12.Success in medicine, chemistry, occult science.
 Association with hospital, prison, sanatorium etc., Prefers to lead a secluded life, self-sacrificing. If afflicted poverty, not straight forward, likes widows, unscrupulous, dispute with parents, danger to children, loss in foreign land.

MOON
 The results of planets in Rohini or Hastham or Sravanam governed by Moon, change according to Moon's occupation or ownership.
1. Weak constitution, dyspepsia, disease in micturition, defect in the ear, many brothers and sisters, worries, never steady, ever changeful, fertile imagination, gains in business, happy domestic life, good dreams. If afflicted, mental disease, danger from water and liquids.
2. Increase in income, larger profits, happy sexual life, versatile, handsome, intelligent, break in education, respected by all, sweet speech, gains through ladies, mother etc.,
3. Popular, many sisters, good health. (If afflicted, dyspepsia) good education, bold, mind ever engaged and alert, fond of journeys, changes, new surroundings, social life.
4. Gains through parents, happy domestic life, inherits, popular, change of residence, over indulgence, gains from wet land, possesses building, vehicle, etc., If afflicted, disappointment, difficulties, theft, fraud, estrangement, loss of parents, complications etc.,
5. Fond of pleasure, enjoys life in the society of children, speculative mind, fond of music opera, swimming pool, handsome wife, affects education, birth of many daughters, a good adviser, wise decision, changeable atfection, unsteady.
6. Weak health, susceptibility for infectious disease, lazy, henpecked, suffers from dysentery, gas trouble, diarrhoea, loss of money, pressure from bank, misunderstanding with mother, loves widows, pilfering habits, changes service, treachery, loss through pet animals, poultry etc.,
7. The partner will be fond of change and travel. Unsettled nature; engaged in public work; early marriage; fond of other ladies, two wives, narrow outlook, jealousy; short journey and honeymoon.
8. Danger to mother, disharmony with maternal people, ill health, lack of comforts, agony, loss through ladies, gains venereal disease. Profitable transaction; receives the goods of the debt, lean body, defective vision and short life.
9. Does meritorious deeds, success in attempts, becomes popular, intelligent, builds temples and charitable institutions, possesses lands, jewels, becomes wealthy, makes long voyages, lives in foreign land, romantic and fanciful mind, good dreams, psychic experiences.
10. Public life, changes business or profession, unstable, becomes popular, increases inheritances, makes voyages, charitable, loves widows, long life, respect for elders.
11. Many friends, mostly reliable, only a few permanent ones, gains through social life, politics, realises ambition, lucky children, wideawake, well informed, gains by agriculture, principled.
12. Fond of occult subject, romance, indiscrete love affairs, loss, gains through hospitals or isolated positions, makes voyages, ill-repute, loss of money, mean behaviour, defective organ.
 If a planet, say Mars, is in Hastham, and the Lagna of the person is Scorpio and Moon occupies 11" house, Virgo, one has to consider as follows:
 Moon is lord of 9: Moon is in 11: The latter is more predominant. So, the planet that is situated in Hastham (or Rohini or Sravanam) offers the matters signified by 11" House bhava more predominantly than the matters indicated by 9" house.
 These matters are fulfilled through Mars, lord of 1 and 6. The source of fulfill ment or accomplishment is Mars, according to its nature, occupation and ownership. The result is given by Moon when Moon's period or Sub period runs.

MARS
 Mrigasira, Chithrai and Dhanishta are governed by Mars.
 Planets in these Stars will offer such results as given below depending on the occupation or lordship of Mars.
1. Ambitious, aspiring, assertive, bold, rash, cruel, wicked, burn or scar in the head, pilfering habits, commands respect, danger to elders, wandering, both constructive and destructive.
2. Irritable, extravagant, increase in income, equal expenses, education affected, mixes with wicked people, danger to partner, gains through iron, steel, timber and chemicals, skill, promotion.
3. Very bold, danger to brother, wealth increases, success in enterprise, victory over enemies, adulterous, fond of dancing girls, danger during journey, if afflicted thoughts of suicide.
4. Loss of wealth, unhealthy to mother, chest pain, danger during journey, Danger to parents, dispute in the family, brutal
and indecent in the treatment of ladies, loss by theft, fire, litigation in property.
5. Surgical aid during delivery, good sportsman, muscular exercise, rash, attraction to the opposite sex, over indulgence, danger of injury to first child. Loss in speculation dispute with cilildren. Government displeasure, criminal activities, scandal.
6. Rich, plenty of lands, political life, success, victory over enemies, unhealthy uncle, active, careless, inflammation, or injury, loss through animals and poultry.
7. Unhealthy wife, piles, many brothers, intelligent, dispute with ladies, evil friendship, long journey. If afflicted death of partner, impetuous in love, loss through litigation, competition in business.
8. Defective vision, short life, loves dancing girls, loses partner, danger to father, misery, unhappy, partner extravagant, loss by fire and theft.
9. Loss in agriculture, short tempered father, sickly, international trade, export, power and prestige-increases, danger of violence, dreams distressful, a fanatic, skeptic, does not pay respects to early religious teachings, enterprising, self-made.
10.Impulsive, intellectual, reasonable, independent, __ courageous, gains through business, promotion, salesman, “industrial pursuit, head of a society, colony or town, makes money in agriculture, owns estate.
11. Gains through agriculture, income increases, promotion, prosperity, progress, popularity, well informed elder brothers, self made, possesses property, a few reliable friends.
12. Danger, injury, scandal, treacherous, visits jails, liability to imprisonment, cheat, loss of partner, sore eyes, difficulties.

MERCURY
 If a planet is situate in any of the 3 stars Aslesha, Jyesta and
 Revathi, governed by Mercury judge the result according to the occupation and ownership of Mercury.
1. Good speech, learned, well informed, learns magic, astronomy, astrology, mathematics, engineering etc., Studious habits, changeable, Artist, adaptable, fertile imagination, journeys.
2. Gains by teaching, writing or by commission. Advertising, stationery, books, press. Many children, acquires property, stores, grain, happy.
3. Frequent short journeys, broad outlook, fond of reading, teaching, anxious, mental development, many brothers, weak body, deception.
4. Good in education, robust health; pleasant mother, new friends, happy domestic life, but change of residence, no fixed, abode, gains money through land, mine, estate, newspaper, library, registrar office, etc., Intelligent mother, ever changes the car.
5. More of mental pleasure than of muscular one. Anyhow worry, anxiety and obstacles. A Minister or an adviser, intelligent children, success in attempts.
6. Petty quarrels, labour trouble, studies hygiene, chemistry, medicine, active mind, overworks, nervous breakdown; suicidal tendency, stomach trouble, dispute with maternal uncle; loss of money through litigation; education affected, disease in the tips of fingers.
7. Unsettled wedded life, partner more intelligent, shrewd, partner younger, may be employed, marriage by advertisement, litigation and legal dispute, If afflicted. Loss of vitality, showy, happy mother, many vehicles, adulterous.
8. Troubles, difficulties, dispute, litigation with partners, misunderstanding with neighbour; journey to attend funeral ceremony, nervous breakdown; paralysis; long life, few children, much wealth, popular, helps relatives.
9. Studious, higher education, success in long journeys; life in foreign place; indecisive; high position; respected by public; fortunate father; learns music.
10. Success in business; promotion; additional charge public life; novelist; teacher; reporter, electrician-railway, antiquities, research, promotion, possesses good house and vehicle, success in education.
11.Owns much property, increases wealth, prosperous, geérierous, charitable, respectful, many acquaintances, only a few permanent friends, associates with youngsters; good in mathematics and astrology.
12. Adulterous, danger to mother and uncle, poor number of children, lazy, poverty, fond of occultism, secret arts, unusual thoughts, petty quarrels, anxiety, scandal.

JUPITER
 Punarvasu, Visaka and Poorvapathrapadha are governed by
 Jupiter. If a planet is situated in any of the 3 stars one is to judge the results according to the house occupied by Jupiter and also owned by it.
1. Robust health, satisfactory financial position, providential help, birth of children, reputation, advancement in career, good education, grammar, politician, long life, stout body, optimistic, jovial, honest, true, banker, physician, judge lawyer, teacher, theologian, cashier, if afflicted suffers from cancer, impure blood, excessive stoutness, plephorea.
2. Successful career, increase in income, prosperous, good for business, gains influence, eloquent, liberal, charitable, gains through banking, religion, education, insurance etc.
3. Philosophical, sympathetic, courteous, many brothers, adopts all methods unscrupulously to gain one’s object, addicted to evil, likes the company of the other sex, gains through 3 house matters, advertising, publicity etc.
4. Happy domestic life, gains-through parents, successful estates, possession of building, vehicle, cattle etc. Lucky mother, success in education, happy end.
5. Good children, gains through love affairs, pleasant life, fond of amusement, cinema, music etc., gains in speculation, wholesale merchant, social success, political career, wise counsel.
6. Maintains health, if indisposed well attended, all comforts given and gains during unhealthy period (One may ask how itis possible to gain when one is ill. A friend of mine admitted himself in a hospital during the period of the planet in the constellation of Jupiter, occupying the 6" house in his horoscope. During the time, he made friendship with a foreigner. On a later date the foreigner was responsible to arrange foreign collaboration for his business. Thus planets in the constellation of Jupiter when it_ is occupying the 6" house good to the native.). Victory in election, adulterous, dyspeptic trouble.
7. Partner well behaved and true, magnanimous, increase in wealth, become very rich, reputation, success in agricuiture, gains through partners, good business, wins in litigation.
8. Loss of property, secret activities, narrow outlook, fond of drinks, never afraid of misappropriation especially public joney, pretends to be honest and generous, prosperity after arriage, gains by legacy, handle other’s money freely.
9. Reputation, religious, lawful, correct intuition, clear thought, philanthropic, good for travel, logical, optimistic, luck to father, association with foreigners, a good adviser consultant, many children.
10. Noble birth, optimistic, influential, good business, political life, sportsman, timely promotion, good relationship with higher
 Officials, social and financial success, does meritorious deeds, possesses lands, vehicle, head of a village, command many servants.
11.Good friends, well placed in life, gains through
 Jupiterians, social success, popularity, realises ambition, birth of children, learns music, masters it, possesses building, enjoys all comforts.
12. Gains through law, medicine, occult subjects, service in public institutions, visits hospitals and asylums. Connections with foreigners, danger to children, or limited number of children, enlargement of spleen, evil tendencies and scandal if afflicted.
 Wanders, becomes a sanyasi, pious, in the end of life Moksha.

VENUS
 Barani, Poorvaphalguni and poorvashada are the 3 stars governed by Venus. Planets occupying any of the 3 stars will give the following results corresponding to the house which Venus has occupied or owns.
1. Reliable, affectionate, emotional, social, fond of arts, pleasure, mucic, fortune, fruitful,, Successful, mathematician, poet, if afflicted defect in ovaries, kidneys, cheeks affected, diabetes, accumulates wealth, purchases jewels, costly dress etc. Please the partner in sex affairs.
2. Fortune, favour from ladies, higher officials, artists, etc.
 Social success, marriage pleasant, purchases jewels, runs hotels, found of adornment, luxuries, increase in wealth, happy married life, charming wife, musician.
3. Brothers prosperous, liking for painting, cheerful, optimistic, relatives and neighbours are favourable, saves money, keeps health, if afflicted unhappy, poor, economical, unpopular, dissatisfaction in married life.
4. Happy domestic life, prefers his own native place, easily gets inheritance, possesses property, fortune, glutton, beautiful mother, possesses cattles, plenty of milk and milky products, owns estates, cars, service in transport, educational institution.
5. Birth of beautiful children especially daughters, talented in music, gains through love affairs, speculation, investment, music, summer resorts etc., A good administrator and adviser, danger to mother.
6. Can maintain health, avoid excesses, no labour problem, gains in maternity, nursing and maintaining pet animals, poultry etc. Skin disease, kidney or ovary troubles, diabetes, wins in election, victory over enemies, fond of ladies of all kinds.
7. Social and financial success, good partners, success in business, public relation satisfactory, very clever in adultery, fond of other women, over thinking of sexual pleasure, happy domestic life, pleasant journey, extravagant expenses.
8. Increase in income, ill-health to mother, successful business, wealth through partner, God-fearing, profit by legacy, insurance, fuel, forest, deals in wood, closet bathroom fittings.
9. Sympathetic, obliging, higher education, successful, good in music, arts, happy long journey, success in foreign land, may marry out of caste or a foreigner, reputation, good fortune, head of infantry, may fall in love with teacher's or prohit’s daughter, high position, honour.
10.Pleasing manners, popular, success with other sex, permanent friends, never rubs on the wrong side, gain through elders, and through music, happy domestic life, harmonies wedded life, gain through jewellery, luxury, amusement, speculation, decoration, possesses house, conveyance, some breaks in education, few elder sisters, success in litigation.
11. Very rich, luxurious comforts, learned, possesses lands, gains in agriculture, uses good conveyance, pleasant friend, social success, prosperity after marriage.
12. Romantic life, investigates secret arts, gains through charitable and public institution, enjoys peaceful life in seclusion, happy and stastifactory sexual bliss, immoral tendencies in plenty, does not reject women though low born, pleasant promises and unworthy performance.

SATURN
 Pushyam, Anuradha, and Uttarapathrapada (Uttrattathi) are governed by Saturn. Saturn may occupy any house and own
two of the 12 bhavas. Whatever Saturn indicates by its occupation of a particular bave and the ownership of the two bhavas, will be offered by the planets, in any of the 3 stars.
1. Lazy, lethargic, abortive tendency, loss of children, unscrupulous, adulterous, obstacles, wandering, poor, loss of wife if afflicted, methodical, industrious, if ill-placed affection of the bone, teeth, right ear, knees, spleen, constipation, rheumatism, stone in gallbladder etc.
2. Maximum labour, minimum wages, uphill, struggle, lack of money, success in estate, mine, investment, coal, lead refrigeration etc. More than one wife. Break of education, fond of drinking.
3. Increase in income, gains wealth, death of brother, victory over enemies, success in litigation, diplomatic, mental control, concentration very cautious, cares for truth.
4. Chronic disease to mother, loses ancestral property, voyage to distant places, misfortune in his own land, scandal, incomplete education, gains through oil seeds and black grains, enmity with politician, seclusion at the end of life. If well posited and if it receives good aspects from lords of 2, 7, 11 comes by treasure.
5. Abortive tendencies, still born child, may adopt, disappointment in love affairs, likes only old people, in a female chart it shows attraction to widowers, troubles through children, loss in speculation, cinema, criminal prosecution, wandering often, depressed, tale bearer.
6. Deaf, adamant, victory over enemies, court bird, increase in income, popular, greater authority, chronic disease, loss through animal and poultry, labour trouble.
7. Late marriage, sickly wife, fond of other's wives, pain in the ear, prudent and faithful wife, steady in affection, poverty, misery, loss by partnership, unsuited for business, always meets with opposition, failure in litigation, miserable in election, scandal.
8. Loss of wealth, criminal activities, disputes, untold misery, obstacles, disappointment, dejection, slow death, chronic disease, distressing dreams, death of father, danger of drowning, unwieldy sexual organ, adulterous, fond of drinks, leprosy, consumption, asthma, danger to brother, dishonest, black marketer, secret activities.
9. Philosophical minded, detached attachment, scientific, meditative, geology, mineralogy, occult subject, metaphysics, renovates temple, irreligious, misfortune, unpleasant domestic life.
10. Speedy promotion to a high level, sudden reversal and adversary, ambition for power and prestige. Industrious, yet financial loss in business ultimately (in few cases it is found that
 Saturn in 10 for cinema actors and actresses, had given a very good lift and income. But everything is lost and they lead a miserable life. So also great politicians, and powerful people had
 Saturn in 10 , reached the highest position and fell:down to a depth much greater than the height they climbed. It is similar, to a person climbing up a tree on the shore of the sea, walk along the branch and fall into the sea, the depth of which is much greater than the height that he climbed.). Chances to visit holy places, enjoys life in foreign land, becomes the head of religious institutions and ultimately becomes a sanyasi as he does not own anything.
11.Select friends, mostly elders, hopes fulfilled, becomes rich, owns lands, political power, obstacles in education, danger to elder brother, enjoys conveyance, vehicle, commands authority, success in enterprises, promotion, influence, increase in income.
12. Life in a secluded place, danger of imprisonment, secret inimical activities, downfall, loss, accidents, injury, secret sorrows, disappointment in love affairs, dissatisfaction in sexual life, wasting money for nasty purposes, vision defective, ill-health to children, weak constitution, misery.

RAHU & KETU
As regards Rahu and Kethu, they indicate the . sults of the planet with which they are conjoined. If no planet is in conjunction with them they bestow the results of the planets aspecting them.
if Rahu or Kethu is neither conjoined with, nor aspected by any planet, it offers the results of the lord of the constellation in which it is deposited, and lastly the results of the sign. So one is to include ihe results of Rahu or Kethu in a particular house along with those of the lords of the constellation.
 If the lord of the constellation is a benefic, one can expect advantageous result. If the lord of the constellation or the planet conjoined with or aspecting be a maletic, only undesirable results will be experienced.
 Rahu or Kethu gives the results to a much greater extent than what the lord of the constellation can offer. Therefore imagine as though the lord of the constellation is posited in that house in which Rahu or Kethu was tenanted. Also imagine that the lord of the constellation is posited in that bhava. And it gives the results to a greater extent. Suppose one is born in Kumba lagna, Rahu is posited in the 10" house in Anuradha constellation. And suppose there is no planet in conjunction with nor any planet aspecting it; then Rahu will produce the results of Saturn owning the 18*and 12" houses and the results of the matters signified by the house occupied by Saturn. When one has to give the results of Rahu one has to imagine as though Rahu which is in Anuradha star will act as an agent of Saturn or as though Saturn itself is in
 Anuradha. But it Rahu were to be in Jyesta, then it has to represent
 Mercury. So, imagine as though Mercury is in Jyesta and include the matters signified by lord of 5 and 8: give more importance to the matters indicated by that bhava occupied by Mercury. Thus one has to blend the results and judge properly before venturing a prediction.

HOW TO JUDGE WHETHER A PLANET IS A BENEFIC OR A MALEFIC
 Hindus are of opinion that Jupiter is the greatest benevolent fortunate planet, Venus comes next. Unaffiliated Mercury and waxing Moon are weak benefics. Hindus consider Sun and the other planets Mars, Saturn, Rahu, and Kethu as malefics. Further according to lordship, in Jathaka Chandrika the author claims that the lords of the houses, 3, 6, 8 and 11 are malefics. By that he means, according to me, that these are evil only for one’s health and longevity and not for other aspects in one’s life. The same author says that the lords of the houses 1,5,9 and 10 will produce advantageous results to a native and classifies them as benefics.
 Westerners do not agree with Hindus in considering Sun as amalefic. They have classified Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Waxing, Moon and Mercury as benefics and the other planets excluding Rahu and Kethu (the Nodes) including Uranus and Neptune as malefics. They do not attach importance to the houses which they own excepting that the planet which forms an evil aspect is adverse and they judge a planet as a benefic or malefic only from the aspects which they receive. They claim that a planet eventhough by nature a malefic and by lordship also owning the houses signifying undesirable matters, becomes a benefic if it receives beneficial aspects and it is devoid of adverse ones.
 But according to krishnamurti system the differentiation and the proper judgement to classify whether a planet is a benefic or a malefic is as follows:
(1) A planet may be a benefic to the native but at the same time it will cause evil results to his own near relative and thereby be a malefic to such a relative. Food for one man is poison to the other. Similarly benefic to a person does not mean that it can give good results to him, to all his relatives and friends. For example, lord of 2 can give promotion and also increase the
income whereas the same planet may cause death to his wife.
 Are we to call this planet as a benefic or a malefic? A person may mint money by releasing a book at a time when the significator of the 3° house operates. But it may cause separation from mother or bereavement. In some cases where lord of 3 is a ruling planet to father, father passes away. Can we call the planet ruling the 3rd house or signifying the matters of 3rd house as a benefic to him when he loses one of his parents? Again the significator of the 4th house may operate. The native may construct a house and occupy. On the day he occupies the house, his son by mistake touches a live wire and passes away. Both events happen on the same day. Can we call the lord of 4th as a benefic or a malefic? Acquisition of a house is really pleasant but losing a son on the same day appears to be not only an ill- romen but it is actually an irreparable loss.
 A person goes on a pilgrimage, with his two sons and has a dip in the river Ganges, as lords of 9, 10 and 12 jointly operate. \At the same time, both the children are washed away in the speedy current of the Ganges. No doubttill he had the dip in the Ganges, it was a pleasant journey to him but the loss of the children due to the lordship of 6th and 8th houses counted from the 5th house denoting health and longevity of children is worse than the
 Pleasure he had.
 Thus it can be said that a benefic to the person may be a malefic to one of his near relatives forming a member of the family.
(2) Ifa person wants to find out which planet is a benefic and which one a malefic to him without taking into consideration what it does for others, then first of all we have to note down which he considers as desirable results, agreeable to him. Every one, however old he may be, would like to live for some more years.
 So, all would wish to have a longer span of life to enjoy all the fruits of life. When one is 60 years old, he would like to see that his responsibilities are over by celebrating the marriage of his youngest daughter. He does it and lives for some more years.
 Then he has the desire to celebrate the marriage of the great
granddaughter and so on. Thus there is no end for one’s ambition and one never feels contented.
 One may be wealthy, he may possess some crores of rupees.
 Even then, he has got the ambition to multiply it. How does he think? When my father left me ‘X’ crores of rupees and 1 have got 6 children, then is it not my duty to make it ‘6X’ crores of rupees and give each child, ‘X’ crore rupees; then alone 1 will be doing my duty just like my father did. Look at his ambition. He wants to multiply his wealth by six times.
 When one tries to select a girl for marriage, what series of qualifications he prescribes. No doubt ultimately he may marry one whom others will avoid even to look at. Here also he wants to find out whether the planets will please him by giving one
 Urvasi for him to marry.
 When children are born he wishes that every child must come out successful in competitive examination, hold high position etc. Thus, in every walk of life and to every relative of his, he expects most brilliant results. Therefore, one is to judge which planet signifies the various matters and also the different relatives.
 To ascertain, first of all, one is to take each planet and consider in which constellation it is, the lord of the constellation and note in which houses the lord of the constellation is, ownership and find out the matters signified by the lord of the constellation according to its ownership of the Bhava (never take into judgement where it is posited, its nature, etc.) suppose you find that Sun rules the 8th house then the stars governed by Sun are Karthigai, Uthiram and Uthrashada. Hence, any planet occupying any of these 3 stars will be under the sway of Sun.
 Similarly, Mars to that native will rule the 4th and the 11 th houses.
 It is said that planets owning or occupying the 1 1 th house will satisfy the native by offering such results he expects. Therefore, planets under the sway of Mars by occupying one of these stars of Marsi.e, Mrigasira, Chitra or Dhanishta will offer brilliant results.
 Now if a planet were to be in Chithrai and according to
 Krishnarmurti system is in the sub of Saturn then the native will
surely gain and be happy because there will be neither delay nor disappointment. But if the same person has got another planet in the same star just prior to it in the sub of Jupiter, this planet eventhough it is under the sway of Mars and indicates the matters signified by the houses 4 and 1 1, yet it brings loss, failure in attempts, disappointment in life, partition, separation from partner, etc. as the sub lord is Jupiter, i.e, the sub is governed by the planet indicating the matters of the 12th house. Therefore, it is necessary to note whether a planet is in the sub of a planet which promises agreeable results to him or disadvantageous.
 The planet must be considered as the source by which one’s desire may be fulfilled or may be disappointed. The planet is the source of that event.
 The lord of the constellation. i.e., the matters signified by the houses governed by the lord of the constellation, will indicate the matters. The lord of the constellation clearly shows what results one is going to enjoy or experience. Therefore, the nature of the result is indicated by the lord of the constellation.
 The nature of the result may be viewed by the person as desirable or undesirable. It the sublord is a benefic, then when the matter indicated by the lord of the constellation if agreeable, the person will enjoy in full. But it the lord of the constellation indicates beneficial results and the sub lord shows adverse ones, then the star of lords of 6 or 8 or 1 2 are evil.
 If the planet is in a constellation denoting evil results but the sub lord is a benefic, then eventhough hé may suffer yet temporarily, during the period of the sub lord’he has a little relief from the adverse results. Suppose a camp clerk is serving under a hard task master who uses to be harsh and short-tempered; then this poor man curses his fate and years pass on. When the sub period of a planet occupying the beneficial sub operates, during that time, the officer goes on leave and he has temporarily no worry or he himself may proceed on leave and ‘forget the *office for sometime. Similarly a temporary relief will be given if a
planet were to occupy a beneficial sub in that of the constellation governed by the planet owning undesirable houses to a person.
 Now one may ask which are the undesirable houses to a person ?
(a) As regards health, the significator of the ascendant should not be the significator of the houses 6 or 8 or 12. Significators of beneficial houses in the ascendant in good sub contribute to maintain good health and allow him to livelong.
(b) Lord of second house will prove to be a benefic to the matter signified by the second house, if it does not occupy the constellation and sub of the significator of the houses 6, 8 and 12 counted from lagna. Similarly, for each house we have to note whether the significator of the house, is posited in the constellation and sub of the significator of the houses 6, 8 and 12 counted from that particular sign. If any planet is so posited or ii it is conjoined with the lords of such houses, the planet viiers adverse results signified by it by lordship. The above is the general principle.
 But according to Krishnamuriti system the planet which is considered to be a benefic by lordship offers the results signified by it, through the planet deposited in its constellation. Beneficial planets offer their results through the depositors in their constellation, only when the sub is also governed by a benefic. If the sub is ruled by a malefic the depositors cannot bring out favourable results. For example, to a Scorpio-born. Jupiter is the lord of 2 and 5. Jupiter is not only the chief governor for children but also by owning the houses 2 and 5 it signifies the birth of children to that person. Jupiter rules the stars Punarvasu, Visaka and Poorvapathrapada. If a planet occupy any one of these stars then that planet has to offer the results indicated by Jupiter. If the sub is governed by lord of 11 then the person gets a child. But if the sub is ruled by lord of 12, no child will be born during the period of the planet in the sub governed by lord of 12. Therefore, ayplanet occupying Punarvasu Nakshathra and Mercury sub will give a child. So one is to understand that the planet which either
occupies a constellation or transits in a constellation, is the source by which one has his desire fulfilled. The lord of the constellation indicates the nature of the result, the sub shows whether it is desirable or undesirable. :
 Hence Planet is the source, constellation indicates nature of the result and the SUB is a deciding factor whether the matter is favourable or not.
 Unless the matter is favourable, we do not call it benefic.
 Therefore, benefics are those which allow a native to enjoy and occupy the constellation of the lords of those houses through which he expects a result. A person who wants to publish books would like to see that the third house is well fortified. Therefore, he considered third house as a benefical one for him. A press owner, an agent, a representative, a secretary, a broker. a contractor all these people should have a beneficial 3rd house.
 Therefore, Planets occupying the constellation of those signifying 3rd house matters will be his benefics.
 If we dispassionately observe, we find that certain beneficial results to us are disadvantageous to our relatives, etc.
 Each house has to contribute certain aspects in one’s life and so every house is important. Therefore, the planet signifying the matters of each house has to be well posited so that through such matters he can have pleasure. If a house is afflicted, through that source, he will have worry. If the Sth house Is spoiled, then the general principle that lord of 5 will do good cannot be correct.
 Lord of 5 may be a benefic; He can be by nature also a benefic, yet it need not necessarily offer beneficial results to him as the lord of the constellation in which it is posited will be detrimental to the child thereby causing anxiety to the native. Hence no planet is wholly a benefic nor in full a malefic. It is similar to the rose with thorns, A planet is said to be a malefic when thorns are many A planet is a benefic when the thorns have fallen down and the rose alone looks bright, without any bee, which may perchance sting.

CUSPS AND SUBS -HOW TO JUDGE
 If that point which rises in the east, which is called ascendant happens to fall.
(1) In that sub, Lord of which is the significator of the ascendant itself, it indicates whether one can maintain good health or not; One can resist against infectious disease or not;
 One can come out successful in his efforts or not; whether one’s younger brother will gain; mother can command the esteem of others, Children will have higher studies or go overseas; or make long journey; wife or competitors or partner will meet with any adverse results -any danger to their lives, etc.
(2) If the sub lord of the Ascendant is the significator of the ascendant and second house, one gains money; enters into service or increases his bank position. Benefit accrues through industrious activity.
(8) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of the ascendant and 3rd house, one has good mental development; gains more knowledge by making frequent short journeys; attached to brothers, neighbours, etc. relatives are also useful and helpful.
(4) If the sub lord of the Ascendant is the significator of houses 1 and 4, one has good education, studious, gains through estates, mines, etc. will be benefitted by ancestral property ; may entertain occult investigations.
(8) If the sub lord of the ascendantis the significator of houses 1 and 5, one has much delight in sports, specutation and pleasurable pursuit. One will be much attached to children.
(6) It the sub lord of the Ascendant is not only the significator of lagna but also that of 6th house, one will have sickness; susceptible to infection; Resistance very poor, recuperation takes , times; Will not attend to laws of hygiene; One will always have
pets; One will be attached to maternal uncle; servants, servant maid etc. Wins litigation, election, etc.
(7) Ifthe sub lord signifies 1 and 7, public enemies disappear. there will be union; partnership; one will have henefit through wife or partner; one would like to be always in the midst of other sex, There will be marital happiness.
(8) If the sub lord is the significator of 1 and 8 one will meet with danger. There will be accident and injury. One can have legacy, or entangled money or gratuity, bonus, insurance, share of profit, arrears of pay, etc. One will accumulate money; do business for others; There will be occult experiences; mediumistic.
(9) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of 1 and 9, one likes his father, loves long journey; will have psychic experiences, be religious - philosophical; higher thought subjects; graduates may get doctorate; one likes science and research; one may have prophetic dreams; gains through brother. In-law or wives relatives.
(10) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator or 1 and 10 houses, one does meritorious deed, held in high esteem:
 One will have honour, award, prestige; one can come to the front of the public and be popular; will rise to a high social and professional position. There can be no indignity, no dishonour but high ambitions, very auspicious for business and to be a statesman.
(11) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of 4 and 11, large profits; large number of benefactors. One will assist others and also be assisted by friends; enjoys one life: failure out of question . Cure to disease, speedy recovery and taking prophylactic medicines preventing diseases, are promised.
 Hopes and wishes will be fulfilled. Marriage to children; Prosperity and satisfaction.
(12) If the sub lord of the ascendant is the significator of 1 and 12, there will be enough of troubles, jealousy, secret inimical
activity, sorrows, everywhere hindrance and thereby impediments. Liking to study occult science. Practise Yoga, go to unfrequented place; prefers isolation: even for minor ailment hospitalisation: there is the danger of imprisonment. One will be the cause of his own undoing: one will be a victim for being cheated, swindles, etc. guard against treachery, conspiracy, etc. one believes in Purchasing and investing money than to keep in bank.

 If the sub lord of the 2nd cusp is the significator of 1 and 2 then the native will be finding it easy to make money by his personal efforts; he will serve or do business and try to increase his bank position. If the sub-lord of 2 is the significator of the houses 1, 2 and 6 one enters into service or it should be significator of 10 without being the significator of 7. If the significator of the 2nd cusp is the significator of the houses 1, 7 and 10 one does business. If the sub-lord is the significator of 1, 2 and 12 and is connected with Sun or moon or Venus one loses his vision. If connected with Saturn one suffers from tooth ache.
 If Saturn and Moon are connected then one’s mouth will be foul smelling and he will have pyorrhoea.
 If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of the second and the third, one can gain through education. writing. publicity, Publication, journalism, brothers, colleagues, neighbours and by taking up agencies, commission business, touring, salesman, representative, short tours etc. But to younger brother there will be loss. This sub-lord is very lucky to one’s children.
 If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of the second and the fourth house, then one gets estates and money as inheritance and one will be anxious to own buildings, houses land, mines, etc. One gains by such investments. One is successful in his own place. permanent place of residence. automobile, transport, etc.
 If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of 2" and 5" houses, one gains through music opera, cinema, pleasant
al..usement, sport; entertainments, through younger people and children. This planet will prove to be very lucky to children and| mother.
 If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the sig: iicator of the houses 2 and’6. one makes profit in any transaction. One can have enough of overdraft facilities; come out successful in the election and gain. One can deal with pet animals, poultry, public health departments, medicine, all humanitarian service, gains through labour and labour department. This is also very good to one’s children.
 If the sub-lord of 2nd cusp is the significator of 2 and 7 one gains through partner in business or by marriage, one makes good profit in contract business and in any manner dealing with others, Success in litigation. One reycins seniority, enemies meet with danger, slightly good to children.
 If the sub-lord of the second is the significator of the houses 2 and 8 one can gain, by legacy, Insurance bonus, gratuity or by will. If the. same planet is the significator of the 9th house one loses money due to bank failure. But if this is the significator of 1!, gain is a certainty. Children make fortune in their own place and possess property.
 If the sub-lord of 2 is the significator of 2 and 9 one makes money by export, and import by publication of books, by making long journeys, by contacting foreigners, or by discovering some
 Improvements and by patenting the same, One gains through religion, temples, churches, science, relatives of partner, etc.
 Speculative gains to children.
 If sub-lord of the 2nd cusp is the significator of the second and the tenth house, one makes steady progress, ever
 Prosperous, gets into Government service, or under taking any business, has honours, awards, increase in reputation, success in all undertakings, Children get into service or come out successful in competitive examination or election or litigation.
If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of the houses 2 and 1 1 one makes money without much effort, gains without pains, through speculation; friends oblige. There will be accidental fortune like lottery where the investment is the minimum _ and the gain is substantial. Equally it is lucky to children to gain by business or win in litigation.
 If the sub-lord of the second cusp is the significator of 2 and 1 2, one can make money by serving in a sanatorium, asylum, hospital, occult investigations, circus, jails, etc.; not good to children,
 Thus one is to find out to which house a planet is the significator and calmly judge what it can do.

(CONSTELLATION AND SUB)

 Since the zodiac is of 360° and it is equally divided into 12 signs, each extending to 30” exactly, in each sign there will be, on the whole 2 1/4, constellations, as shown below.
 In Aries : Aswini, Bharani and 1/4 of Karthik;
 In Taurus : Karthik 3/4, Rohini and Mrigasira 1/2
 In Gemini : Mrigasirisha 1/2, Arudhra, P. Vasu 3/4.
 In Cancer : P Vasu 1/4, Pushya and Ashlesha.
 In Leo : Makha, P. P Guni and 1/4 of U. P. Guni
 In Virgo : U.P Guni 3/4, Hastha, Chithra, 1/2
 In Libra : Chithra 1/2, Swathi, Visaka 3/4
 In Scorpio : Visaka 1/4, Anuradha and Jyesta.
 In Sagittarius : Moola, P Shada and U. Shada 1/4
 In Capricorn : U. Shada 3/4, Sravana, Dhanishta 1/2.
 In Aquarius : Dhanishta 1/2, Sathabisha, P P Pada 3/4
 In Pisces : PP Pada 1/4, U.P Pada, and Revathi.
Constellation needs consideration.
 The sign is not very important. The house occupied by a planet should be judged, taking in which constellation the planet is posited. The role of the sign occupied by the planet is not so important, as that of the constellation.
 If a planet is in 12th bhava, it is said that it should cause separation, loss, issue of cheque. etc. But actually there is reunion, gain, receipt of cheques. Example is given below;
 Jupiter Dasa 3 years 1 month 6 days.
 This Gentleman had gains, fortune and success during
 Saturn, Mars and Sun Sub periods; desirable benefits during
Jupiter and Mercury sub periods. But Kethu in 10, Venus in 11 and Rahu in 4 gave untoward and undesirable results.
 According to traditional system. Saturn and Sun must be the worst. Jupiter also will fall in 12th bhava and ought to have been very bad. Venus and Budha causing Dharma Karmadhipathi
 Rajayoga, should give brilliant results. Rahu representing, Venus must cause Rajoyoga. Mars should be dangerous. This person was my friend for a long number of years and such results alone opened my eyes.
 In 1939, when 1 visited Coimbatore, | heard one Nadi reader, reading the results of a few persons in his cottage. | understood that planets’ results were read as they were found in the bhavas.
 Then | heard many Nadi readers. None made use of the constellation. While reading the Nadi, | understood that without assigning the reason, the results were read and they were astoundingly meticulously correct. For the future, they gave the reasons taking the traditional methods of the bhavas and the future proved to be mostly a failure. So | started the research, collecting the horoscopes of old people with past events.
 Such horoscopes as shown above threw the light. What is it? A planet ‘A’ offers the results of the house occupied by that planet B’ which is the lord of the star wherein this planet 'A’ is deposited.
 Again trouble arose when 2, 3 or 4 planets are found in the same constellation, as all the planets in the same star, though referring the same matters, yet gave diametrically opposite results, i.e. if planets A, B, C and D are in one constellation, in the same house, A and C gave pleasant results whereas B and D gave just opposite results. This made me think further. 1 found that a particular dasa is to cause Rajayaga. But yet, he gets most _ desirable result, in some bhukties and disadvantageous results in some Bhukties. Then 1 started doing research and in all cases 1 found that planets, though they are in the same constellation, yet a few are beneficial and a few unfavourable. This caused me to further carry on the research. 1 found that every constellation
must be divided in the manner 1 have said into 9 subs and each sub having that area in a constellation in the proportion in which they are allotted the number of years in Vimshodhari dasa.
| proved that planets occupying any one constellation, has connection with the Bhava occupied by the lord of the constellation. These planets in that constellation are termed as the “Significators” of the bhava occupied by the lord of the constellation. Thus if one works out for all the planets then each planet is found to signify the matters of a few houses.
 Then judge each planet. The planet signifies a matter.
 Whether it votes for the progress and prosperity of that matter or due to the sub lord it is not capable of doing good, further it does harm to that bhava signified by the planet, is to be studied.
 This discovery has crowned me with success.
| say “if a planet is the significator of lagna bhava, it gives long life, success in attempts; it helps to maintain good health, if the sub lord is not the significator of 6 or 8 or 12. If the sub lord of the planet signifies 6th house and if a planet shows lagna results and occupy such a sub ruled by the significator of 6, he falls ill.
 The constellation refers to his health, sub signifying 6 gives disease. If a planet signifies lagna bhava and it is in the sub of the significator of 8, he meets with danger.
 If the sub lord signifies 12th house and the significator of lagna is in such a sub, one runs away, or one is imprisoned, or hospitalized.
 Therefore constellation lord shows whom or which matter it refers. But the deciding factor, good or bad, success or failure is shown by the sub occupied by the significator.
 Suppose a planet A is the significator of second bhava and it is in the sub of 6 one borrows but if it is in the sub of 8 or 12, he lends to others or repays loan.
 If it is in the sub of 11, there is gain; of what? Either money or son-in-law or daughter-in-law or child birth to the person. If
the significator of the second house is in the sub of the significator of 3, through brother one gains, brother loses or gives away: If it is in the sub of 4, one may have car or house during the period of the significator in 2, in the sub of 4th house significator, in their conjoined periods. if the significator of the 4th house which rules the sub and if itis also the significator of 11, fhe purchases or acquires , if the sub lord who is also the significator of 12 other than 4, he sells and converts the permanent possession as liquid cash and his bank position improves by losing the car or building. If the sub lord of the planet signifying second house is the significator of 10 and 12, then lets his land for tenancy or lets the house for rent. Why ? 10th house is the 4th to the 7th with whom you transact, so that which he takes Is given by you (1 2) and he is indebted (6).
 Suppose a planet is the significator of 7th house and if it is inthe sub of 2 or 1 1 one gains, there is reunion, one gets married, etc, If it is in the sub of the significator of 12, separation or ill health to wife. If itin the sub of 1 and 2, danger to partners’s life.
 There can be 3 or 4 or any number of significators for the 7th.
 Therefore during the period or sub period of a planet in such a sub whose lord signifies 12th house, wife fails ill-or the native goes away and separation is caused. If the sub lord signifies 6th house, the wife goes away, thereby there is separation.
 If the planet is the significator of 7th house and sub of 4, partner gains, makes money and earns name. If the significator of 7 is in the sub of 5, partner makes money, friendship and enjoys pleasure. if the sub is ruled by the significator of 8th house, there is either income or danger to life. If that significator of 8th house is also significator of 5 partner gains. But significator of 8 is also significator of 1 and 7, it means death as 8 and 1 are maraka house to the 7th.
 Thus one should note separately what each planet signifies.
 Then in which sub each planet is posited.
 Finally one should take each house and judge, to which bhavas the planet are the significators and the sub lords. Judge
calmly how each bhava is receiving good results from a few and adverse from the rest.
 Say, mother, father, child, etc. Mother is shown by 4th house.
 Father by 9th house. child by 5" house.
 So, note the significators of 4: so also the significators of 9 and 5.
 Let us take the above chart.
 Kethu Dasa balance 0-5-23,
 The constellation ruled by a planet indicates the matters, signified by the bhava occupied or owned by it.
 The sub lord occupied by a planet denotes whether it is auspicious for the progress of that Bhava or inauspicious so that one has obstacle or faces disappointment or negation of the matter.
This applies to all bhava results. If lagna is occupied by a planet or owned by one and if a planet either the same lagnadhipathi or any other planet is deposited in the occupants or owner's star, then they indicate first house matters. If the depositor in that constellation is in the favourable sub matters indicated by lagna will thrive. If the depositor in that constellation is in unfavourable sub the matters indicated by the lord of the constellation as per its occupation or ownership will suffer.
 Lord of lagna is Sun: no planet is in lagna, Sun's stars are
 Karthik, Uthraphalguni and Uthrashada. Planets, if deposited in these stars will refer the matters signified by first house. If there is no planet, Sun gives lagna bhava results.
 In the above chart, there is no planet in Sun's star. Hence
 Sun gives lagna results. Sun is in Moon’s star. Moon is in 9 and owns 12. Hence Sun mostly refers to the matters signified by 9 and 12i.e. long journey: staying outside: loss of father. permanent possession of father, separation from father. Let us judge the death of his father.
 Note the sub occupied by Sun. It is in Jupiter's sub, what can Jupiter do to the 9th house? What can Jupiter do to the 12th house?
 Jupiter is in Saturn's star. As Saturn is the Bhadhakastha- naadhipathi to 9, Jupiter indicates Bhadhaka to father. Therefore if a constellation indicates father, then the sub of Jupiter in that constellation indicates danger to father.
 Therefore Sun in the constellation of Moon in 9 and sub of
 Jupiter-the Bhadhaka to father, promises danger to father.
9 house is owned by Mars. It governs Mrigasira, Chithra and
 Dhanishta stars. Rahu and Mercury are in Mars star. Rahu is. in the sub of Mars who denotes, longevity to father. Mercury is in the sub of Saturn Bhadhaka to father. Hence Rahu is a benefic whereas Mercury is evil.
 To the longevity of father houses 2 and 7 counted from 9th is evil. Both are owned by Venus. Rahu occupies 2 (to9). Mars
occupies Venus star; none in Rahu star. Mars is in the sub of
 Venus. So it is harmful : Rahu is in the sub of Mars; it is good.
 Therefore Sun, Mercury, Mars are evil. Venus is in Jupiter sub. Venus is also evil. (Venus is in the constellation of Kethu who represents 4th and 9th houses. Therefore Venus indicates the houses 9, 10 and 3 -danger to father.)
 His father died during Sun Dasa Mercury Bhukthi Venus
 Anthra in July 1952.
 Let us judge 4th house. It is occupied by Sani and Kethu. It is owned by Mars.
 SO planets in Saturn’s stars Kethu stars and Mars stars are those which refer 4th house matters.
 Venus In Kethu star, Jupiter in Saturn star, Mercury in Mars star indicate 4th house matters.
 Venus is in the sub of Jupiter, Marakasthanadhipathi and
 Venus is in Marakasthana to 4 (2™ from 4).
 Jupiter is in Venus sub. It is evil. Mercury is in Saturn sub. As
 Saturn is in rapt conjunction with Kethu and Saturn is in the
 Constellation of (Mercury, lord of 8" from 4") Mercury is evil :
 Saturn is also evil.
 Now Venus, Mercury, Mars, Saturn, Moon, etc. refer 4th house matters. It is. the lord of the sub which indicates whether 4th house matter will thrive or not.
 Venus is in 2 in the sub of lord of 2.
 Mercury in the constellation of planet in 2 to 4, owner of 4 and in sub of evil in 4.
 Saturn in the sub of Jupiter and Kethu in the sub of Jupiter, both occupying 4th house are evil. Hence he lost his mother during Venus Dasa Mercury Bhukthi Saturn Anthra on 27-4-47,
 Let us analyse the date of death of his mother. It was on 11- 4-47 when Venus Dasa (in the constellation of occupant of 4 and sub of the occupant of 10) Mercury Bhukthi (constellation of
planet in 2 to 4 and sub of planet in 4) and anthra of Saturn which refers the 4th house (to give life or cause death depending on the sub which Saturn occupied) and it is in the sub of Mars and Shookshma of Rahu in 10 which is also in the constellation of Mars in 2 to 4 and sub of Mars.
 Day of demise-Friday. Star Moolam where Dasanatha was (Jupiter rasi Jupiter significator of 4 in Saturn star and sub of
 Venus in 2 to 4) at night when lagna was in Poorvashada 15° in
 Dhanus.
 Death of child happened during Moon Dasa Jupiter Bhukthi
 Rahu Anthra. Moon is in the constellation of Kethu and sub of
 Mercury. Kethu has to give the results of planet with which it is conjoined, as it is a node. Saturn is lord of 2 to 5 and situated in 12 to 5. Hence Moon is definitely evil as it is in the constellation of the node representing the second house to the 5th and in the sub of lord of 7 to 5, situated in 2 to 5.
 Jupiter is in the constellation of Saturn, lord of 2in 12 to 5th house and sub of Venus, which is the occupant of 5 in the constellation of node in 12 to 5. Venus itself is evil to 5. Mars ir
 Venus star Venus sub is also evil. Rahu in Venus sign Mars stai and Mars sub is definitely evil.
 Hence, Moon Dasa Jupiter Bhukthi Rahu Anthra was evil.
 Letus take pkasant fanctons. Marriage
 Judge houses 2,7, and 11 counted from lagna. 2, 7 and 11 are vacant. 2 is ruled by Sun, 11 is ruled by
 Mercury. 7 is owned by Saturn.
 Saturn and Kethu are in Mercury star. Jupiter is in Saturn’s star. Kethu Is stronger than lord of 7. Moon and Venus are ir
 Kethu star. Sun is also strong as there is no planet in Sun’s star.
 Marriage took place during Venus Dasa, Kethu Bhukthi,
 Venus Anthra, Moon Shookshma on 6-7-1947 on Sravanam star day.
 Venus is in Kethu star. Kethu is stronger than Saturn, lord of 7 (7th house vacant).
 Kethu is in the star of Mercury (lord of 2 and 11). Both houses, vacant.
Moon is in Kethu star. Kethu stronger than Saturn, lord of 7.
 Kethu has to predominantly indicate Saturn's result; then only that of Mars. Moon's star is not in Mars sign. Hence, Sravanam star governed by Moon in Saturn's sign gave marriage.
 Normally when one finds Saturn and Kethu in 4 and 9th house occupied by lord of 12, one following traditional Astrology must say that the native will have no tendency towards education. Also that he cannot come up nicely in studies.
 But according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Saturn and Kethu in 4 are in the constellation of Mercury, lord of 11 and sub of
 Mars owner of 4, education and 9, higher education.
 According to my method, if the dasanatha is connected with houses 4 and 9, they will give education.
 Venus in the constellation of node in 4 gave studies throughout Venus Dasa.
 Sun in the constellation of Moon in 9 gave higher studies. As
 Moon is aiso significator of 12, Sun in the constellation of Moon, gave the break and ended his studies.
 He discontinued his studies after successfully completing
 Medical College course during Sun Dasa Saturn Bhukthi Sun
 Anthra in December, 1952.
 Service:
 Take houses 2, 6 and 10. Sun and Mercury are in 6. Rahu is in 10. Kethu indicates what Saturn is to do, and Saturn is lord of 6. Sukra is lord of 10.
 First appointment was in Sun Dasa (in 6). Saturn Bhukthi (lord of 6). Sun has no planetiin its star. Hence Sun has to give surely 6” house results. Saturn in the constellation of Mercury (lord of 2) and owner of 6 has to offer. Kethu can give. Also Moon and Venus.
 Moon in mercury sub is very strong. First appointment was in Sun
 Dasa Saturn Bhukthi and Moon Anthra in January, 1952.
 Thus various instances can be quoted.

 PAGES 151 152 is publicity

( PHYSICAL FEATURES )
 Generally, the sign occupied by the lord of the constellation in which Sublord of the Lagna at birth is, indicates whether one is tall or short, stout or thin-build, etc. These Details are given under each sign, in vol.1.
 If we classify the 12 signs into 3 groups, then the signs
 Gemini, Leo, Sagittarius and Aquarius contribute for good height.
 Aries, Virgo, Libra and Scorpio indicate average height.
 Taurus, Cancer, Capricorn and Pisces denote shortness.
 Lord of Lagna, in the beginning of a sign, indicates tallness.
 As it proceeds to the middle of a sign, the person is above average height; between the middle of the sign, and the end of the sign, one becomes shorter. If it is in the fag end of a sign, one is short.
 Robson says that the lord of the Ascendant and Moon without latitude, posited in the end of a sign produce short persons.
 Ptolemy mentions that lord of the ascendant with greater latitude causes stout persons. The greater the latitude the more stout one will be.
 Also, in practice, it will be observed that the physical description varies from the normal in many respects especially in twin births. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, one's height, weight, etc.; depends on the sign occupied by the lord of the star in which sublord of Lagna is deposited. The sign denotes the physical feature in general. The constellation modifies it.
 The lord of the sub decides whether one is tall or short, plumpy or wiry and so on.
 Further one should include the aspects from other planets to the cusp of the ascendant and judge according to the nature of the planet. Good aspect from Jupiter to the cusp of Lagna inclines to overweight whereas Saturn to emaciation. Mars and
 Sun offer muscular and robust body. Venus contributes for grace,
charm and beauty. Mercury denotes plumpy with pale appearance. Moon gives prominent features, long nose, piercing and wandering eyes. Uranus inclines to long limbs. Rahu produces tall people. Kethu causes shortness. Saturn and Sun contribute for bushy growth of hair. One's physical feature is governed mainly by the sub lord and the Sign occupied by the lord of the constellation in which the Sublord is situated. Hindu astrologers judge the beauty of a person from the lord of the
 Navamsa Lagna. The complexion is ascertained from the lord of the Navamsa sign occupied by Moon. The conduct and character is judged from the lord of Trimsamsa. Varahamihira advocates this method of judgement. Mahadeva in Jataka Tatva says that one’s appearance will be like that of the planet which is the strongest in the horoscope: the hue depends on the lord of the Navamsa sign occupied by Moon and the behaviour and character depends on the Trimsamsa position of Sun.
(Marks, Scars or Moles on The Body)
 Mahadeva has mentioned that Mars and Sun cause red mark;
 Rahu and Saturn black scar, Moon, Mars and Venus produce on thé head; Venus in Lagna and Rahu in 8 cause a mole in the head or right ear. Mars in Lagna and Saturn in trine indicate mole or mark in generative system. Jupiter in 8 produces mole in the belly. Royal mark or mole on the palm or on the foot will be found in persons who have to enjoy Rajayoga.
 According to Westerners, one will have a mark or a scar in that part of the body indicated by the sign — (Aries-head; Taurus- ears, neck, throat; Gemini-arms, hands, shoulders; Cancer- breast, Leo-heart, sides, back; Virgo-belly; Libra-reins and loins;
 Scorpio-secret parts; Sagittarius-hips and thighs; Capricorn- knees; Aquarius-legs and ankles; Pisces-feet and toes.) (a) in which Lagna falls (b) in which lord of Lagna is deposited
(c) in which Moon is situated
(d) in which Saturn, Mars or Uranus are posited and at the same time afflicted by evil aspects, and
(e) the sign where the 6" cusp falls.
 According to me, mole is found from birth and scars and marks are formed due to disease, cuts, operation, boils, etc.
 A male will have a mole on the righi side if the Lagna and lord of Lagna occupy a masculine sign. If the Lagnais masculine and the lord of Lagna is in feminine sign, the mole in that part of the body signified by the Lagna sign will be on the right side, whereas the sign tenanted by lord of Lagna shows the part of the body and the mole will be on the left side. But if a male member is born in a feminine sign and its lord is also in a feminine sign the mole will be on the left side. If the lord is in a masculine sign, the mole will be on the right. For ladies, the reverse is the order.
 If in that sign, the cusp or the lord of the Ascendant is in the first ten degrees, the mark will be in the uppér one third portion of the part indicated by the sign: if it is in the middle 10 degrees, the mark will be in the centre of that part of the body: if it is between 20 and 30 degrees, it will be in the lower part of that portion.
 As regards scars, one is to note which planets will cause disease or danger; which sign they occupy and afflict; which part of the body will be affected; and also judge when it is to happen. For example, If Venus and Jupiter are in Visaka
 Nakshathra-constellation 21 degree Libra in the 6" house to
 Taurus born, one expects appendicitis or hernia during the conjoined period of Jupiter and Venus. As the surgery is to be done in the lower abdomen, one is to predict scar in the lower abdomen, Similarly one is to offer a precise and correct prediction.
 Longevity
 According to Western system:-
(a) By progression, if a malefic comes to the cusp of any angular house
(b) if a malefic forms evil aspect with Ascendant
(c) if a malefic progresses in the 6" house and afflicts the 4" cusp
(d) if a malefic progresses in the 8" house and adversely aspects 7" cusp
(e) if a malefic throws evil aspect from the 12" house to the meridian
(f)_ if Jupiter, though a benefic, forms evil aspect with
 Neptune (MOKSHA)
(g) if Neptune forms evil aspect with malefics
(h) if Uranus, Saturn o: Mars receive strong unfavourable aspect from other evil planets
(i) if they afflict the Lord of the Ascendant or the
 Ascendant: danger for longevity is to be protended.
 So also, during transit, such aspects are to be taken to fix the exact time.
 According to Hindus: the span of life of a person may be classified into 3 groups.
(a) short life (0 to 33% years) (b) middle life (33% to 66%, years) (c) long life (66%, to 100 years)
 Our sages have grouped the following combinations : -
Short Life
Moon conjoined with a malefic-not mitigated by the aspect from a benefic and malefic in Lagna and 7° Bhava.
Moon in a Kendra (either in 1 or 4 or 7 or 10) and malefics in other Kendra Sthana.
Weak Moon in 12; evil planets in 8 and 1 - no benefic in Kendra.
Benefics in 3 and 8 afflicted by malefics
Moon in Lagna and malefic in 7
Moon, Sun and Saturn in 8
Mutual exchange between lords of 1 and 8
Lord of Lagna in 3 or 6 or 12 - malefics in 6 or 8- no favourable aspect from benefics.
Moon, Sun and Mars in 5 house - devoid of beneficial aspects and so on.
(The above is a general principle. It needs further consideration. One should not declare hastily the results applying the above rules alone.)
Middle Life
 Saturn in Lagna, Moon in 4, Mars in 7, Sun in 10, benefics in evil houses.
 Jupiter in Lagna in Sagittarius, Mars and Node in 8
 Saturn in Lagna, Moon in 8 or 12
 Venus in Lagna, Saturn in Kendra, most of the other planets in 3 and 11.
 Sun in 7, Mars in 5 and Saturn in Aries.
Long Life
No evil planet in Kendra: Jupiter in a Kendra position counted from lord of Lagna
Moon in 9, no evil in 8, benefics in Kendra
Benefics in between first and 6" houses and malefics above horizon
Leo Lagna-majority of planets in Kona-Trine houses
Cancer or Taurus Lagna: Jupiter deposited in Lagna. Three more planets exalted.
Cancer Lagna occupied by Jupiter.. Two planets in exaltation.
Leo Lagna with Jupiter. Venus in Cancer-Mercury in Virgo matefics in Upachaya Sthana 3 or 6 or 11.
Moon in Pisces, Sun in Cancer, Aries Lagna, Saturn in Capricorn, Mars in Libra.
 Thus various combinations are given. To my knowledge there are 284 such rules. Readers cannot remember all these combinations. Each rule can be applied only to a few births.
 These are general. They fail miserably in case of Twins.
 But our sages have propounded various methods to calculate the age of a person. They involve so much of calculations that a person needs hours and days to arrive at one figure. Those who would have gone through a few magazines, would be knowing many methods as a symposium is given. This is the theory. It has confused many to know which one is correct and follow.
 God alone has to help the reader. Publishers do not advocate any one of the various calculations, giving reasons.
 The following examples and explanations will be useful. This method is applicable to all births including twins.
(1) Note the correct time of birth and the time of query
(2) Erect horoscope using Raphael Ephemeris and
 Table of houses.
(3) Deduct Krishnamurti Ayanamsa
(4) Note the Ascendant-Nirayana position-referring to the table given in the first volume, ascertain the lord of lagna, the lord of the constellation and the lord of the sub. Dase lord is the lord of the constellation:
 Bhukti lord is the lord of the sub.
 If any person has to run the conjoined periods of these three planets, what would be the result? Will he lead a healthy life or will he suffer? If the sub belongs to a benefic, he lives long.
 When the sub is governed by a malefic, his life is short. This is
very clear in the case of twin births where one lives and the other dies. The sub lord is the deciding factor.
 If the sub lord is a benefic then it is necessary to calculate and find the span of life. Lords of 1,5, 9 and 10 are benefics.
 Lords of 6, 8 and 12 are malefics. If lords of 1,5, 9 and 10 also rule 5 or 8 or 12 consider the planet as mostly a benefic.
 The planets owning other houses are considered as a benefics or a malefic, by noting the other house which they own.
 How to judge the longevity is explained with 2 examples.
 Bhadakasthana, Kendraadhipathya and Marakasthanas are explained.
(Ex. 1. Chart is as follows:
 Mars, lord of Lagna rules the sub of the Ascendant. Health, vitality, resistance against infectious diseases, immunity, activity are judged from the strength of the Ascendant, planets in the
 Lagna Bhava, those occupying their constellation, the good or bad aspects to the Ascendant and to the lord of the Ascendant.
Benefics in the Ascendant contribute for long span of life.
 Lord of the Ascendant forming favourable aspect with the ascendant and receiving harmonious aspect from benefics promises long life.
 Ascendant is Scorpio.
 Its lord is Mars. As per Hindu System it is aspecting the
 Lagna and fortifying it. Therefore health and longevity are assured by Mars.
 Disease is indicated by the 6" Cusp, 6" house, planets in the
 Constellation of the occupants of the 6" house, the occupants of the 6" house, the planets in the constellation of lord of 6, the owner of the 6" house, planets conjoined with them or aspected by them affect the health and cause such diseases signified by them when they operate their dasa or bhukti or anthra and there is aspect to them by progression and by transit.
 In this case (so also for Taurus borns) lord of 1 is also the ‘ord of the 6" house. So the same planet owns both the ascendant indicating health and also the 6" house threatening disease. Then when Mars (lord of 1 and 6) dasa or bhukti or anthra is on, how to say whether one will maintain robust health or one will fall ill as Mars has to offer health and cause disease also? Note down which planets form favourable aspects with Mars and the ascendant and which form (a) adverse aspects with Mars, (b) good aspect with the 6" house and (c) adverse with ascendant.
 He will maintain good health during the dasa or the conjoined period of Mars and the benefic who form harmonious aspects with the Ascendant and the lord of the Ascendant. He ought to have fallen ill and he will have ailment during the dasa of the planet forming evil aspect with Ascendant or good aspect with 6" cusp or lord of 6 or planet in 6. According to K.P, Significators of 6” house ruling the Sub period in Mars dasa will cause disease and significators of 11 give cure.
&" house is called the house of “Longevity”. Therefore planets in the constellation of evil planets in the 8" house, except
Saturn, occupants of the 8" house, planets in the Constellation or in the sub of lord of 8, lord of the 8" Cusp and planets in any manner connected with them indicate (a) danger to one’s life (b) the cause of death and (c) the place of death.
 But houses 2 and 7 are Maraka houses and the 12" house indicates Moksha. The reason is as follows. Houses 1, 8 and 3 are judged for longevity and benefics in these houses contribute for long life. 12" house to any BHAVA is the negation of the
 Bhava. Therefore the 12" house to 1, 8 and 3 are 12, 7 and 2 and they are evil for one’s longevity. That is why, houses 2 and 7 are said to be Marakasthanas and 12 is called the Moksha Sthana.
 So one is to judge the houses 1, 8 and 3 and then 2, 7 and 12.
 First of all one is to judge whether a person is promised “Poorna Ayush - i.e., full course of life running between 66 and 100 or Madyama or Middle life (age between 33 and 66) or short life between 0 and 33.
 Then one is to work out, calculate and ascertain (a) which planet will rule the dasa in that age and the area covered by the maraka planets; (b) according to progression, the time when the
 Lagna, the lord of the Lagna and the very slow moving planets
 Saturn, Uranus and Neptune receive evil aspects; (c) according to transit (Gocharam) when evil aspects are formed to the ascendant, its lord etc. as per K.R, when Significators transit in such sensitive points ruled by the significators.
 Also, eréct a chart for the moment at which there is the urge for one-to answer the query and note the evil planets for that moment. Ruling planets for that moment reveal.
 Finally ask the person to mention a number within 249, consider the position of the planets and judge. These are for confirmation and confidence.
 Bhadhaka Sthana
 According to the Hindus, Bhadhaka Sthana Adhipathis are ihe worst malefics who will never hesitate to put an end to one’s
life. Of the twelve signs, Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn are movable-chara-signs, arc! the 11 house counted thereform are
 Bhadhaka-Sthanas i.e., to Aries born, Aquarius is the
 Bhadhakasthana and the lord of Aquarius, Saturn is the
 Bhadhakasthana Adhipathi. To Cancer-born, Taurus, is the
 Bhadhakasthana and the lord of Taurus, Venus is the
 Bhadhakasthana Adhipathi. Simitarly to Libra, the sign Leo and the Luminary Sun and to Capricorn, the sign Scorpio and its lord, Mars are Bhadhakasthanas and Bhadhakasthana adhipathis.
 For people born in fixed signs Taurus, Leo, Scorpio and
 Aquarius, the 9" sign from those houses are Bhadhakasthanas and their lords are Bhadhakasthana adhipathis.
 For people born in common signs Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces, the 7" house thereform and the lords of those houses are Bhadhakasthana and Bhadhakasthana adhipathis.
How to Judge
(1) Of all the planets, those which occupy the constellation of the occupants of the Bhadhaka Sthana are the most evil. Next, the occupants of Bhadhakasthana; the Planets. occupying the
 Constellation of the lord of the Bhadhakasthana, and the lord of that evil sign. The planets conjoined with them or being aspected by them also acquire unfavourable effects.
Kendrasthana
(2) Next, the Hindus consider Kendhra adhipathyam as harmful. Waxing Moon, unafflicted Mercury, Venus and Jupiter owning the houses 1, 4, 7 or 10 counted from Lagna are regarded as Kendhra adhipathis and a few astrologers are terribly afraid of them, as they have not collected materials and studied from the facts and figures.
 There are hundreds of people, born in the years 1909 & 1923, in the Ascendant Virgo with Moon in Hastham star, having Jupiter in the marakasthana, 2, owning the Kendhra houses 4 and 7
who are now living having enjoyed their lives for 16 years of Jupiter dasa and are now running Saturn dasa. Therefore to decide one’s longevity, taking Kendhradhipathyam is not correct. Many other methods are to be included.
Marakasthana
(3) Next consider the planets in the constellation of those in
 Maraka sthanas, the occupants of Maraka sthanas, those in the constellation of Maraka sthana adhipathis, the lords of Maraka
 Sthanas, and those conjoined with or aspected by them. Thus one is to analyse and judge.
 The lagna of the example horoscope is Vrischika. It is a fixed sign. The 9" house is the Bhadhakasthana. Moon is the lord of the 9" house. No planet in the Bhadhakasthana. Hence one is to consider its lord Moon after judging the strength of tne planets in the constellation of Moon i.e., Rohini or Hastham or
 Sravanam. Only Mars is in Rohini star.
 Venus is a Kendradhipathi owning the 7" house. Venus alone is in Bharani governed by Venus.
 But there is a node Rahu in one of the signs of Venus and
 Ketu in the sign of Mars. Rahu represents Venus; Kethu represents Mars.
 Therefore Rahu and Kethu are definitely evil. Tenant is stronger than owner.
 As purna Ayush is promised by the aspect of Mars on Lagna,
 Jupiter's aspect to lord of Lagna etc, and as it is, he is now running 63 years of age, consider which dasa will prove to be evil. Mercury dasa, Venus Bhukti from 4-6-1962 will operate upto 4-4-1965.
 Venus in the 6" Bhava, in the dasa of lord of 8 can cause cataract in the eye. It will be developing in this period and in the bhukti of sun, who is in the constellation of the lord of Lagna
 Mars, will give vision with the aid of a surgeon.
 Later Moon Bhukti will be pleasant which will be continuously enjoyed during Mars sub period.
Rahu Bhukti begins on 7-7-1968. Rahu is undoubtedly evil.
 Dasanatha Mercury, lord of 8, in the constellation of Rahu, in
 Mokshasthana, representing Kendradhipathi Venus, is also undesirable. Kethu in the constellation of Mars is not favourable.
 Kethu is in the 6" sign, but in the 5" Bhava, it is said that Kethu in the 5" house conjoined with Marakasthana-adhipathi will inflict death.
 Therefore Budha dasa, Rahu bhukti, Ketu anthra will be the end.
 Budha dasa Rahu bhukti commences on 7-7-68: Ketu anthra will be between 2-1-70 and 25-2-70.
 As per transit on 18-2-70, Saturn will be in Ketu star Saturn
sub and conjoins exactly Kethu (the anthranatha) opposing Rahu the Bhukti natha.
 Therefore longevity upto 18-2-1970 is promised. (Actually this native passed away at 7.30 a.m. on 18-2-70).
Sublord of the Ascendant shows one’s health, vitality, immunity and longevity: Planets, benefic, by lordship, occupying
 Lagna, do not guarantee for long span of life so also Malefics to affect health. Though Cancer-natives are considered to be fragile in their youth, they pick up health later and lead a healthy life, yet longevity depends upon the exact position of the Lagna, the sublord and the lord of the constellation in which the sublord is deposited. .
6" house shows disease. Planets occupying or owning the house are weaker in strength than the planets in the constellation of the occupants and owner.
8 house shows unexpected and minor or serious incidents affecting one's health and causing anxiety to life.
42! house threatens with danger, hospitalisation and end of life (Moksha).
 Houses 1, 8 and 3 are to be examined to ascertain, whether one will live long or is blessed with short life. The houses 12to1. 8 and 3 are 12, 7 and 2. Twelfth house to any house is the house of negation to that house. Hence, houses 1, 8 and 3 are the houses of longevity whereas house 12, 7 and 2 are the “Maraka
 Houses”.
 The planets, in the constellation of the occupants of the
 Bhadhakastiana, are the stronger evils: next, the occupants of
 Bhadhakasthana; next those in the constellation of the lords of the Bhadhakasthana and lastly the lords of these evil houses.
 Next, one is to judge the Maraka sthanas, the second and seventh houses, whatever be the sign, in which ascendant falls.
 Having considered and selected the strong evils, note, when they will operate conjointly (according to Udu Dasa System).
 Lagna is Cancer, it is a movable sign. 11" house to Cancer is the Bhadhaka Sthana, i.e., Taurus. Neptune alone is in Taurus.
 As Neptune is not allotted any star, no planet is in the constellation of the planet in Bhadhaka Sthana. :
 Venus is the lord of the sign Taurus. Bharani, Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada are ruled by Venus. No planet occupies the constellation of Venus. So Venus itself is a significator. It is in the constellation of Rahu which occupies Maraka Sthana. Therefore
 Venus is a very strong evil planet.
 Leo is the 2™ house, and its Lord is Sun. it is the Maraka
 Sthanadhipathi to Cancer-borns. No planet is found in the second house. Rahuis in Sun's star. Sunis in the constellation of Saturn.
 Saturn is Maraka Sthana-adhipathi. Sun is another significator.
 Capricorn is the 7" house, another Maraka Sthana. Its lord is
 Saturn. It is in its own constellation. Therefore it is evil.
 Saturn’s stars are Pushya, Anuradha and Utharattadi (Uthrapathrapada). Majority of the planets are under the sway of Saturn. Ketu is in Pushyam star. But all the planets in Scorpio, ie. Sun, Mars, Mercury, Saturn and the Uranus are in Anuradha star. None is in Uthrapathrapada. When the majority of the planets are in the same star find out in which sub according to
 Krishnamurti Padhdhati they are. Those planets in the star of
 Saturn and the sub of the other significators for death, are definitely EVILS. Mars is the strongest malefic.
(a) as it is in its own sigh; (b) as it occupies the constellation of Saturn, and (c) the sub of Mercury,
 Hence Mercury, Mars, Saturn, Venus, Rahu, Keth and Sun are evil.
 As Mercury Dasa is operating, select Mars sub period. In that sub period, the conjoined sub sub of Saturn. Venus and
 Sun will operate.
 It will be after 19-12-1972 and in the second half of February 1973. ° "
 Sun will transit in the 2™4 degree of Nirayana Aquarius, which constellation is ruled by Mars and the sub ruled by Mercury.
 Hence when Sun transits in the 8" house, i.e., in Satu sign
Aquarius, in Dhanista star governed by Mars, and the sub of
 Mercury, in the 3 week of February 1973, health will fail.
 Therefore planets promise long life till atleast 15-2-1973. This person is yet alive.

 MODE OF DEATH
 Hindu sages give many combinations and mention how one meets with one’s end. One need not apply the same strictly. It is to be modified to suit our age.
 Death through a Lion
(a) Sun and Moon in 6 or 8 (b) Mars in 4 or in 10
(c) Mercury in Jupiter’s sign, Mars in the sign of
 Saturn
(a) Rahu and Venus in 10
(b) Rahu and Sun in the Navamsa of atmakaraka and aspected by evil planets
(c) Mars in 4, Saturn in 8 and Sun in 10 (d) Saturn in 2, Moon in 4, Mars in 10 (e) Saturn, Sun and Rahu in 7
(a) Sun in 4: Jupiter and Mars in 10 (b) Malefic in 12 and 8
 Fire Accident
 Moon in Aries or Scorpio and hemmed in between malefics.
Mars in 10, Sun in 4 aspected by Saturn.
 Waning Moon in 8, Mars in 10, Saturn in 4 and Sun in 1
 Moon in 10, Mars in 9, Saturn in 1 and Sun in 5 - gas, smoke, carbon monoxide.
(End Pleasant, Painful, good or bad
 Benefics, in 8, 8" cusp receiving beneficial aspect at birth show peaceful and pleasant end.
 Malefics, especially Saturn in 8, threaten prolonged ailment and long suffering or accident by falling down. Uranus threatens unexpected, sudden end, mostly due to accident, electrocution, sunstroke, aircrash, etc.
 Neptune indicates poisoning, drowning and unnatural death.
 Mars in 6-bad end.
 Mars in 12, Saturn in 8-dirty death. Sun with lord of Lagna in
 Capricorn or Aquarius-lightning or electrocution. Moon and lord of 9 in 8-peaceful death. Saturn in 4, Moon in 7 and Mars in 10, drowning.
 Sun and Moon in a dual sign-drowning.
 Thus many yogas are given by our sages. To commit to memory and to recollect at the time of scrutiny of a horoscope is a problem, almost close to impossibility.
 Also, they say, find out the 224 decanate from the Lagna and judge the characteristics of this decanate lord and predict the mode of death.. Or find out the decanate occupied by lord of the 8" house. Its lord will reveal the mode of one’s end. As, at the outset, it fails in the case of births with a short interval of time between the two, like twins, the above is to be taken as a general principle alone.
 But according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati one is to take that
(a) danger is indicated during the conjoined periods and subperiods of the lord of the sign, lord of the star, the lord of the sub where the 8" cusp falls and the lord of the constellation in which the sublord is deposited.
(b) danger shown during the conjoined period of the lord the sign, lord of the star, the lord of the sub and the lord of the constellation where the lord of the 8" house was deposited; or
(c) if the sub is ruled by the benefic, promising long life or cure, even though there is danger, one will escape and survive.
 If the sub lord is a malefic, and a Significator of death, one will succumb to it. Jupiter sub shows pleasant end; Mars’ sudden;
 Saturn chronic and lingering one.
 If the Sublord of the 8" Cusp is the significator of the houses 1, 4 and 10, show that the end is in his own place.
lf the sublord of the 8" cusp is the significator of 34 house shows that while one is making a short journey, mostly on his return journey, one passes away. Sublord of 8 cusp if significator of the houses 6 or 8 or 12 indicate, death in the jail or in the hospital or in an unknown place.
 If the sublord of the 8" cusp is the significator of 9" house death will happen during long journey or in a far off place.
 The horoscope of one who was born with Moon and Jupiter in Cancer like Lord Shri Rama, having a similar name, was one of the 117 passengers by the Air India Boeing 707 reported to have crashed; is as under : -
The other horoscope belongs to his wife who survived him.
 Male chart - Born on 2-11-1931 - Monday.
 Jupiter dasa - Balance 3 years, 8 months, 28 days.
 The following is the chart of the wife who has survived her husband.
Mercury dasa - Balance 4 years, 5 months, 24 days. By air crash it is meant
(a) one has the opportunity to go by air, on a long journey
(b) The unexpected end (c) In husband’s chart, a far off place.
 Long journey is indicated by the 9" house. Planets in the 9° house are Moon and Jupiter. Rohini, Hastham and Sravanam are ruled by Moon. Ketu alone is in Hastham.
 Venus, Mercury and Moon are in Jupiter's constellation.
 Mercury is lord of 9. It is in Shookshma Parivarthana yoga with Jupiter. Jupiter alone is in Mercury’s constellation.
 Hence, Mercury, Jupiter, Moon, Venus and Kethu are the significators.
 Find out whether there is a node occupying the sign of the significators. Rahu is in Pisces ruled by Jupiter. Hence take
 Rahu as the strong significator.
 Therefore, the conjoined periods of Mercury, Rahu, Ketu,
 Venus and Moon should create a chance to go overseas.
 Actually he left India during Mercury Dasa, Rahu Bhukti,
 Venus Anthra, Saturn Shookshma, as Mercury is in 12, in his own Sub, Rahu is in Bhadhakasthana adhipathi Sun’s Sub, Venus in the constellation of Jupiter and Sub of Moon (both in 9), Saturn is in the constellation of Venus owner of 12th cusp. All these are connected with’3, 9 and 12: hence he made the journey.
 Why should there be an unexpected end? Danger and death are denoted by the Sublord of the Cusp of the 8" house. Sublord is Jupiter, Lord of 3 in 9 in the constellation of Lord of 9, Mercury who is always for travels. Venus denotes the vehicle, Mercury the travels. Hence, his end was far away from native place. As the same planets rule the Sub of 8" house there was danger.
 Let us note the ruling planets then. It was a Monday ruled by Moon. The star was Sathabhisha governed by Rahu. The sign is owned by Saturn. The ascendant at that time of the crash
might be 11° Capricorn, in the constellation of Moon and it would have coincided with Mercury i.e., to the place of accident, Mercury would be rising in the East then.
 Why should the lady lose her husband in a far off place?
 She was running Venus Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, Venus Anthra.
 The 7" cusp is to be taken as the ascendant of the husband.
 Then Venus is in the constellation of lord of 6 Mercury who is in the constellation of Lord of 8 Sun. this disposition is danger to husband.
 For her, the 8" house shows Mangalyam. It receives aspect from Mercury, Sun and Mars. This combination indicates Mercury, during travels; Sun by fire accident; Mars, sudden end to him causing Dhur Bagyam to her.
 Look at the Yogas in her chart; Chandra Mangala Yoga
 Sunapha Yoga; Lagna Adhi Yoga; Nipuna Yoga; Vesi Yoga; etc.
 What have they done to her; Let traditional astrologers consider these and correct themselves. Is there any amangalya Yoga?
 Thank you very much for your letter of May, 21, 1969 in which you discussed the horoscopes of myself and my friend. Here | am amazed by the accuracy of your prediction. Your lucid and logical approach to Astrology is very impressive and certainly commendable.
 Some of your predictions are amazingly accurate. | did have an automobile accident in the third week of May 1968 which | escaped with no injury and damaged vehicle. Also | did buy a car around 16-2-68 as you had said. | wish to keep in touch with you and | intend to meet you when I visit India. If you should ever consider the possibility of visiting U.S.A. | shall be delighted to help you in every possible manner. | believe your trip to this country can be very interesting and rewarding if planned properly. Astrology as a hobby has helped me a lot in all walks of my life in U.S.A.
 Sincerely Yours
 Mr. M. J.
 S. Mill Street, Naperville Ill - 60540.
 September 1, 1969
(ESCAPE FROM AN ACCIDENT)
 A FRIEND SAYS
“The following is my chart. On 1-9-1962, Saturday while returning from office, a truck dashed my vehicle. | fell on the left and escaped. If | had fallen on the right, | would have been run over and crushed. Do you expect any injury or similar accident, in future?
 Mercury dasa Balance at birth 9 years, 3 months, 5 days”
 Generally people born in the sign owned by Mercury (Gemini and Virgo) will have accidents, injury, fracture, dislocation, etc. as (a) to Gemini-borns, Mars rules the 6" house and Saturn the 8" house and (b) to Virgo-borns, Saturn rules the 6" house and
 Mars the 8" house. Of the two signs, Virgo is the worst as Mars rules the 8" house.
On 1-9-1962, you were running Sun dasa, Mars Bhukti, Saturn anthra.
 Sun, lord of 12, in the constellation of Mars (Ashtamadhipathi) in the sub of Mercury and in the sign of Mercury causes hospitalisation and separation from family.
 Mars, lord of 8 causes danger.
 Saturn, lord of 6 in 2 gives separation from family, expenses, disease and also borrowing money.
 On 1-9-1962, the day was Saturday. The Nakshathra was
 Uthrapalguni, governed by Sun and the Lagna was in Mars sign
 Scorpio, in the star of Anuradha 4" pade governed by Saturn.
 As the dasanatha and bhuktinadha were in the 10" and 11" houses respectively and above the horizon, you fell on the left side. As Jupiter was aspecting Dasalord and was below the horizon, the providential aid came from right side. That is why, the truck went on the right side and you thereby escaped. If
 Jupiter would have been in the 9" house and above the horizon, the truck would have come on the left and would have gone at a distance. If Jupiter would have been in Lagna, the truck would have stopped just in front of you.
| had the chance to see the horoscope of my friend who had
 Jupiter in Lagna. He was in a scooter. The signal was red. He stopped his scooter. When the yellow light was on, he tried to start once, twice, thrice. No. it did not start. To his luck, the driver of the car in which | went, thinking that he will move, started and picked up, say, 5 miles speed. As he did not move, the car gave a push to the scooter. Array! It started at once and my friend drove away. Even to start a vehicle when it is not perfectly all right, God helps in this manner.
 As long as, well placed Jupiter aspects your Lagna, there is no fear.”
Good health is maintained:
(a) when the cusp of the Ascendant receives good aspect from the lord of the ascendant, luminaries and other benefics.
(b) when neither the cusp of the Ascendant nor the lord of the ascendant is adversely afflicted;
(c) when lords of 6, 8 or 12 neither occupy Lagna, nor conjoin lord of Lagna nor form favourable aspects;
(d) when lord of Lagna does not.occupy 6 or 8 or 12.
 Krishnamurti Padhdhati says that:
(a) if a person is born with the cusp of ascendant in the constellation of the lord of 6 or 8, he will not have sufficient immunity and resistance against infectious diseases. He is easily susceptible especially to infectious diseases and during epidemic.
(b) if the sublord of the ascendant is in the constellation of significator of 6, the person will be sickly.
 Therefore if the ascendant and the lord of the ascendant and the sub are in the constellation of planets who are significators of houses other than 6 or 8 or 12 the native will live long; good health will be maintained.
 Of the ascendant and the lord of the ascendant, the cusp is more vital. Twins are born in the same Lagna. The constellation is also the same. But it is only the sub that varies. That twin born in the sub governed by a benefic lives long and is healthy but the other though born in the same Lagna and in the same constellation suffers and dies early as the sub is governed by lord of 8 or 6.
 Planets posited in the constellation of lord of 6 or in the sub of lord of 6 cause disease. Planets in any manner connected with 11% house cure the disease as the eleventh house is the 6"
to the 6". Whenever one suffers from any disease, one will be running the period of the planet connected with 6" house. He can expect the cure only during the sub period of the planet connected with Ascendant or 11" house.
 To judge the nature of the disease, one is to refer to Vol..1, where it is exhaustively dealt with and explained, what each sign signifies and what each planet indicates. Suppose one runs the periods of a planet in Scorpio in the constellation of Saturn (Anuradha) and in the sub of Moon, for the Leo-born, Sign Scorpio indicates generative system. Being the 4" house to Leo born, it shows the breast or lungs. Saturn, the lord of the constellation, denotes that it is a chronic complaint. Saturn in a watery sign or
 Saturn star Moon sub indicates Pustulation. Hence, boil in the breast or Pustulation in the secret parts is threatened. Gonococci infection, may be expected. If the sub belongs to Venus, it indicates Fibroid Tumour. If Jupiter rules the sub, one suffers from cancer. Mars sub warrants surgical aid. Ttus having the sign, the star and the sub one has to decide the nature of the disease.
 Whenever one is to know when a disease will be cured, it is to be found first of all whether there is a cure at all. Then only ascertain when it could be cured. No person can have a cure from the chronic disease, if there is no planet in 11, no planet in the constellation of the owner or occupant of 11" house and if the 11" cusp and lord of 11" are in the sub of evil planets.
 Lepers and a few mentally deranged patients ever suffer till death. Horoscopes of such persons reveal that the lords of the dasas which they experienced after they contracted the disease are all in the sub of lord of 6 and the 11" house is not strong.
 Lord of 11 and 1 are also spoiled.
 People suffer from various diseases at different age. These depend on both the dasa lord and bukti lord. Planets in any manner connected with 6" house have to cause disease. Hence, in their conjoined periods they produce. The sign and the house occupied by these planets show the part of the body afflicted and the complaint.
 Planets in movable signs cause disease of short duration;
 Common signs indicate neither short nor long. But there are chances of relapse: Fixed signs threaten disease of prolonging, chronic, loathsome and tedious nature.
 Any planet can own the 6" house or occupy the constellation or sub of lord of 6. Therefore all planets are capable of causing ailment. Hence what each planet can produce, which part of the body each can affect, etc. are dealt with in Vol. I. One is to be well conversant with the diseases signified by signs and planets.

 FINANCE AND FORTUNE (General)
1. According to Westerners the fortune of a male is judged from (a) the strength of Moon (b) its position (c) the aspects received by Moon and (d) the applying aspect of Moon immediately after birth. For ladies, one is to consider the above in relation to Sun.
2. Planets owning and occupying the house 2 and 10.
3. Harmonious aspect between Sun and Moon: advantageous disposition of Jupiter and Venus in the Ascendant or in elevation: beneficial aspect from any planet to the second cusp; favourable aspect to Fortune in a beneficial house are promising factors for one to make fortune.
4. Evil aspects to the Meridian and to the lord of the
 Ascendant threaten difficulties and throw obstacles in inheriting the patrimony.
5. Benefics by nature, occupying the houses, 1, 4, 7 or 10, evil planets in 3 or 6 or 12 promises and if none is afflicted one can have a pleasant and prosperous life.
6. If slow moving planets form mutual favourable aspects and the luminaries also are strong and receive harmonious aspects, smooth and successful career throughout life is assured.
7. Planets close to second cusp with beneficial aspects from other, make one rich, planets close to meridian receiving good aspects improve one’s status and luck.
8. Strong planets in the 8" house promise legacy, inheritance and sudden windfall.
9. Benefics in movable signs give sudden and substantial wealth; if they are in fixed signs, the income is steady; but if they are in common signs, it is difficult to hoard up money.
 Mercury increases liquid cash, share certificates and documents, Jupiter indicates all varieties of property; palacial building, gold etc. Venus offers jewels, vehicles, furniture, garden;
 Saturn shows landed property; mine and antiques; Mars gives land and building; Sun for authority, power and gold; Moon for liquid cash and wet lands.
10. Uranus or Neptune in 5 gives the tendency to speculate,
 Good aspect to lord of 1,2. and 11 promise unexpected gains by betting, race etc.
11. Fortuna causes fortune through the source indicated by the house occupied by it. The lord of the sign containing Fortune will make one rich if it receives beneficial aspect.
12. Note which planets forms favourable aspect with Fortuna.
 One becomes rich, through the matters signified by those planets.
 Uranus gives high position, covetable posts, honour etc. Also one may float big companies or follow novel and uncommon enterprises, If Neptune forms good aspect with Fortuna one will deal in big trade, smuggling, cheating, fraud, deception, swindling etc.
13. Pearce says that planets rising before Sun and setting after Moon promise one’s income.
14.Planets above the horizon, strong by sign give determination and opportunity to come to the front of the public, be popular and be prosperous.
15. If Saturn or Jupiter rule the 8" house and if there is good aspect with Uranus, they produce gifts, legacies; if they rule the 4" or 10" house, they give inheritance (to majority of people nowadays, it can be taken as provident Fund; Gratuity,
 Compulsory savings etc.)
16. If Moon. aspects adversely Mars or Saturn or Uranus in the second house, there will always be the financial trouble, endless and life long. Jupiter and Moon in adverse aspect threatens loss by imprudence and over liberal actions; Mars makes one extravagant and impulsive; though one may earn more and more, yet one will spend away everything.

According to Hindus, one becomes rich or poor depending on the various Rajayogas and Avayogas propounded by them.
 In practice it is not at all true in all cases. For example Hindus declare that one born with Gajakesari yoga or Lakshmi yoga will be popular, prosperous and rich. A few rich people may have this combination. But majority of the people, suffer from penury difficulties and lead an obscure life. These rajayogas are pleasant combinations for a few Traditional astrologers to encourage the consultant by giving false hopes and not appraising him of its advantages, the extent to which it can help and when. A cook has both Chandramangala yoga and Gajakesari yoga. They exist in his chart from his birth time. He could not study due to financial trouble; lost what little property he had; he took up this profession in a tea-stall; slowly he qualified himself to be a cook. His grievance is that he is a cook in a labour canteen and these yogas have not helped him to be at least a cook in any officers mess or quarters whereby he can gain some influence. If one studies these hundreds of yogas and applies practically, one will endorse as follows.
1. Existence of Rajayoga in a horoscope is not a guarantee that one will enjoy one’s life. It is not universally applicable; it fails miserably and hence it is meaningless.
2. There are people rolling in wealth, holding responsible _ position without any yoga-as is said by Hindus;
3. It is not clearly stated by the authors, when such a yoga will be fruitful and how ong: the extent to which it can give a lift; how far it is capable of mitigating other afflictions; can it completely ward off other evils; when one considers the horoscope of Lord Rama, one finds many yogas. Can such yogas get him separated from wife, be passing anxious time, have irregular food, taking those which are available, etc? If a soothsayer were to meet him, prior to the time when Hanuman was introduced, and if the soothsayer were to narrate all the
 Rajayogas in His Horoscope, what will be the reply of the person to whom the horoscope belongs?
 In Bombay, | met an industrialist. He pays lakhs and lakhs as income tax and saves equally. In his horoscope there are 3 debilitated planets and no Rajayoga. When | came out of his room his clerk showed his horoscope. Four planets are found in yogas. Look at his fate? He asks the astrologer to recommend to his officer for a petty increment. If both the horoscopes are given to some one, following these Rajayogas, he will promote the clerk as the proprietor of the Industry and revert the proprietor as the clerk. Let me not write volumes on this Unscientific method of examining a horoscope.
 The following is the general method followed by Hindus to ascertain whether one can earn and save or lose and suffer : -
1. One commands money if the second house is strong; If lord of 2 is exalted; or if is in a Kendhra or
 Kona; but if it is weak, afflicted and ill posited one loses money, prestige and position;
2. Lord of 2 conjoined with or aspected by Jupiter,
 Mercury or Venus, makes one rich or intelligent orator or popular wealthy person;
3. Mutual exchange between the lords of 1, 2 and 11.
4. Lords of 2 and 9 in a Kendhra;
5. Lords of 9 and 10 in any manner connected with each other;
6. Lords of 2, 6 and 11 in a Kendhra or a Kona;
7. Lords of 2, 10 and 11 in similar position;
8. Jupiter and Venus in angle, lord of 2 in Gopuramsha or Simhasanamsa; or
9. Benefics in 3 or 6 or 10 or 11 counted from Moon sign make one rich;
10. 4 planets in their own quarters make the person wealthy;
11. Conjunction of Moon and Mars produces rich person;
12. If the owner of the Navamsa sign occupied by the lord of the 10" house, is in Vaiseshikamsa, and if it is aspected by benefics one becomes rich;
13. If benefics are posited in all the four angular houses, one amasses wealth;
14. Mercury in cancer and Saturn in 11 make one very rich;
15. Sunin 5 in Leo, Jupiter in Aquarius make one rich.

 So, says, Mahadeva in Jataka Tatva. How general itis? How can such rules apply to all. Between 17" August and 17"
 September every year Sun will be in Leo. Once in 12 years,
 Jupiter will be in Aquarius. So, in that year, in this period of one month, both in the poor and the pleasant family many children will be born. Do they all become rich? Not at all. Not everybody.
 That is why, | stop here from giving further rules and dicta which are too general and not be helpful to the readers.
 According to Krishnamurthi Padhdhati, one is to judge one’s finance and fortune as follows:-
(a) Planets posited in the constellation of the occupants in the houses 2, 6, 10 or 11 are the strongest to give wealth to a person. These planets may be debilitated or may be in enemy's house. Still one’s status will improve in their periods and sub- periods, if they are in the sub of the Significators of 2 or 6 or 11.
(b) The planets tenanted in the above said houses and occupying the sub of the singificators of 2, 6 or 11. These planets should not be afflicted by the lord of the constellations in which they are. They indicated increase in income and savings.
(¢) The planets in the constellation of the lords of the houses 2 or 6 or 10 or 11 and is in the Sub of Significators of 2, 6. or 11.
(@) The lords of these houses in the Sub of the significators of 2,60r11.
(e) Those which are conjoined with the significators or aspected by them.
 Planets contribute to one’s riches:-
(1) Provided the sub occupied by them are governed by the
 Significators of 2 or 6 or 11.
(2) Provided they are not adversely aspected.
 If the sub lord is evil, one loses or one is unable to make money during the conjoined period of the planet and the sublord.
 The planet adversely aspecting, robs away the beneficial result during their conjoined periods.
 Further, majority of planets either posited in the constellation of ford of 8 or 12 or in their subs in other constellations, threaten loss and poverty. They also indicate issue of cheques to repay loan or give away the share of profit.
 Ifa planet owns 8 and 11, or 12 or 11 houses, then one can expect beneficial results during its period, in the sub period of other benefics being the Signifiactiors of 2, 6 and 11; in the sub period of evil planets one will lose. The ownership of an evil house and that of a favorable one by the same planet does not cancel one another and becomes neutral, but actually one will gain during its period, in the sub period of benefic and one will incur loss during other sub periods. Ultimately the profit and loss may be adjusted and the balance sheet may show ‘NIL. Yet there should be both the entries in the ledger; pleasure and profit as well as pain and loss.
One is fortunate, if majority of planets are strong, occupy beneficial constellation in movable sign and are in angular houses. Also the mutual aspects should be hornonious.

- Either poor or should work for livelihood
1. Sun in Aries, other than Parama Ucha point.
2. Sun in Cancer-passionate and poor.
3. Sun in Capricorn or Aquarius, poor.
4. Mars in Leo-cannot save.
5. Mars in Aquarius-miseries-poor.
6. Mercury in Aries or Scorpio-Swindles other's money, poor.
7. Mercury in Leo-penniless. 8. Mercury in Capricorn Aquarius-debts, overdraft. 9. Jupiter in Capricorn-poor, unhappy. 10. Venus in Cancer-expects help from others. 41. Saturn in Gemini, Virgo-loss of money-poor. 12. Saturn in Cancer-poor; in Leo-mean. 13. Lords of 1, 4 and 9 occupying 8" Bhava-very poor - loses wealth. 14. Lord of 2 in 12 and lord of 12 in 2, poor. 15. Lord of 2 in 12, lord of 12 in Lagna, aspected by lord of 7. 16. Lord of 5 or 6; lord of 9 in 8 aspected by lord of 2or7. 17. Malefics in 2, 4 or 5 counted from the sign occupied by Jupiter. 48. Even though benefics may be posited in the 10" house, malefics in the second house produce poverty.
19. Malefics in 3, lord of 12 in 2 and lord of 9 in 12 very poor.
20. Moon, Jupiter and Saturn in Kendra signs, Mars in 5 or 8 or 12 make one very poor.
21. Sun and Moon in Aquarius, other planets in debilitated signs makes even a King a poor person.
22. Venus in Capricorn, and the following planets in debilitation i.e. Mercury, Moon, Mars and Saturn show that even a, Prince will lose his property and become poor.
23. Lord of 2 being weak, conjoined with or aspected by malefics makes one poor, especially when lord of Lagna is also weak.
24. Moon in the Sayana avastha-poor. 25. Mars in Nidra avastha-poor, distressed.
26. Malefics in 12 connected with Moon, loss of wealth by floods.

- Riches
1. The source of one’s wealth is from father, mother, enemy, friend, brother, wife or servant if Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury,
 Jupiter, Venus or Saturn occupy the 10" house respectively.
2. How one acquires wealth is to be judged taking into consideration whether a planet is in its own sign, friendly or enemy’s camp.
3. Benefics in 1,2 and 11 show that a person acquires wealth by various means.
4. One commands moderate wealth, if Saturn is in Libra.
5. One rolls in money, if Jupiter is in Cancer or Sagittarius or Pisces, or if Saturn occupies either of the signs of Jupiter.
6. Venus conjoined with Mercury or Jupiter conjoined with
 Venus make one very rich.
7. Sun in Sagittarius make one rich.
8.Mars though debilitated in Cancer and exalted in
 Capricorn-in both signs contributes for wealth.
9. Sun either in 9 or in 11 endows one with wealth.
10. Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in Lagna shows that one will become very rich.
11.Moon conjoined with Mercury or Jupiter make one rich.
12. People born with Moon in Punarvasu, Pushya, Makham,
 Moolam, Sravanam, Poorvapadra and Revathi become rich.
13. Sun in Gemini, Mars in Aries or Scorpio, Jupiter in Aries or Scorpio, Venus in Gemini contribute for further riches.
14.Moon in Aries aspected by Mars, Moon in Taurus aspected by Venus. Moon in Sagittarius aspected by Jupiter markes one rich.
15. Jupiter in Prakasavastha is good for wealth.
16. Lord of 11 allows to save. Lord of Lagna permits to enjoy.
 If they are conjoined and also aspected by Moon, one becomes wealthy suddenly.
17. If the third Bhava is a beneficial sign and it is occupied or aspected by benefics one acquires wealth.
18. Benefics in the 4 house give ancestral property land, house, conveyance, etc. and contribute for further riches.
19. The mutual exchange between lords of 2 and 5. 20. Lord of 5 in 5 and lord of 9 in 9. 21. Conjunction of lords of 2, 5,9 and 11.
22. Connection between lords of 2, 4, 9 or 11 and Full Moon aspecting any of the four lords.
23. Jupiter and Mercury in the second house.
24.Lords of 1, 2 and 11 in their own signs or in mutual exchange.
25. Lords of 2 and 11 in Lagna; (Mercury in Leo Ascendant, is good. But for other Lagna-borns, Mercury in Leo show loss of money.
26. Venus and Moon in 8, or Rahu in 4, 5, 10 or 11; Ketu in 8, will give wealth during their periods.
27.Sun in Devalokamsa and the lord of Lagna strong, endows with all kinds of wealth.
28. Lord of Lagna conjoined with Kendra lord gives wealth. 29. Lord of Lagna in 10, Sun in Lagna aspected by benefics.
30. Lord of Lagna conjoined with Jupiter in 2 or Kona or kendhra house.
31. Benefics in 5 or 11. 32. Lord of 2 in Gopuramsa.
33. Mars or Mercury in Kantukavastha gives wealth.
34. Lord of 7 or 5 is auspicious to command wealth at all times.

- Loss of wealth: (Hindu)
Sun in Bhojanavastha or Nidhraavastha, Jupiter in
 Netrapanya avastha, Venus in Aagamavastha threaten loss of wealth.
- Recovery of lost wealth : (Hindu)
 If lord of 7 occupies second house, one will regain those which would have been lost. (If lord of 7 is in sub of lord of 2, the same result — K. P)
- Never one can regain:
 If lord of 8 is in 2 or 3, one’s property will dwindle down and he cannot regain anything that is lost.
 Malefics in the 8" house destroy wealth.
 Malefics in 8 and 12 afflicting second house threaten loss.
 In horary astrology, Malefic in 6 or 7 or 8 conjoined with lord of Lagna, shows loss of wealth and the lost one cannot be recovered.
 Example Horoscopes of rich persons who gain crores of rupees every year. Very intelligent and noble gents : -
(a) How many planets are exalted? (b) What are the Yogas? (c) But note in which constellation the planets were posited.
 Sun in the constellation of lord of 2 and 11.
 These four examples are given for students to study. Note whether there are the so-called Rajayogas.
 The above horoscopes belong to the richest person in India.
 Look. Future promises more riches.

- FORTUNE IN SERVICE
 Born on Saturday at 7-10 A.M. L.M.T. on 7-8-1920 at 22’0’
 North and 73° 16’ East. 7
 Finance. Second house indicates bank position and self acquisition.
 Sixth house denotes one's personal exertion, labour work and thereby earning money, or raising loan.
 Tenth house shows one’s profession either in service or in independent business as well as one’s inheritance.
 Sun is the chief governor for profession. Jupiter indicates the bank position. Fortuna portrays how one will be fortunate.
(Always take the Bhava [house] and not the signs to find out results as each house signifies certain matters.)
No planet is in the second, or the 6" or the 10" house. But
 Fortuna is in 10" sign and 9" Bhava.
 As fortuna gives fortune to one in the period of the lord of the constellation in which it was posited and as it represents the lord of the star. Fortuna is to give the results of Sun, who rules the Lagna and Significator of houses 2 and 11 being deposited in Mercury Constellation, Fortuna was 9° 6’ in Taurus. So according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Fortuna was in Venus sub and in the constellation of Sun. Therefore during the conjoined periods and sub periods of Sun and Venus, he will be fortunate. (Actually he took up service only in Sun Dasa, Venus Bhukti).
 Mercury rules the second house. Its stars are Ashlesha,
 Jyeshta and Revathi. Sun alone was in Ashlesha star. Sun in
 Cancer, in the 12" house in Mercury's star, indicates that he will have security of service, permanency, mostly service under
 Government in a place, far away from his native place. Itis ina movable sign. Therefore there will be change in the department and in the nature of work during the periods and sub periods of
 Sun, from one institution to another. He will be transferred with lien in the previous department or completely severing connection with the previous job. Also, Sun indicates that it will end his educational career and offer official life.
 During Sun Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra in the end of
 December 1941, when Sun transited in Poorvashada star (governed by Venus in Jupiter’s sign) he joined a Bank.
 Sun also causes changes: on 1-5-1942 during Sun dasa,
 Venus Bhukti, Kethu Anthra he went to Rajkot: during Mercury sub in Kethu anthra, on 6-5-42 he joined the International Bank.
 Again during Moon Dasa, Mars Bhukti, Sun Anthra, he left service in the Bank and joined Government service in the Revenue
 Department.
 During Moon Dasa, Sun Bhukti he was promoted as class |
 Officer with a change in the place.
 Thus Sun had been uniformly doing good in service matters.
 Again, when he will run Rahu Dasa, Sun Bhukti, Jupiter
 Anthra, in the middle of March 1974, he can expect a higher rank with confidence. There will be increase in income and improvement in status.
 Let us take the 6"" house. As Leo is the ascendant, 6" house is Capricorn. {ts lord is Saturn. Pushyam, Anuradha and
 Utharapadrapadha are the three stars governed by Saturn.
 Mercury is the only planet occupying Pushya. Hence Mercury indicates that
(a) he will be inspecting the accounts submitted by others or carrying out the instructions of other officials;
(b) as it is in a movable sign, there will be transfers and changes;
(c) Mercury will give long journey including overseas; and (d) he may have to serve in international trade or foreign exchange or in exports and imports.
 Saturn, as lord of 6, in the ascendant in the sign owned by
 Sun, in the constellation of lord of 10 Venus, and in the sub of
 Rahu who is an agent of Venus, indicates that he will be holding a position of trust and that he has to keep secrets. He will work in a department where the official matters are to be kept in strict confidence and should not be disclosed. Therefore, during the period of Saturn, he will be entrusted with such a work, He may be asked to unearth some facts which were unaccounted, but possessed by the parties. As Saturn was in the constellation of
 Venus, lord of 10, he will be crowned with success. Not only will he be able to do the job most satisfactorily, but it will also be recognised and he will have an outstanding confidential report during Saturn’s sub periods. When he was running Rahu dasa,
 Jupiter bhukti, Saturn anthra in May 1962, he came to this department. Saturn Bhukti commenced on13-6-1964. Thereafter,
he had been doing such a work and it is sure that he will be establishing a good name.
(Generally 10" house is termed as Karmasthana: it includes doing the last rites to father and mother, to do religious functions, yagnas, etc., and to work and make money. That is why, those who enjoy promotion during the period of lord of 10, also lose either of the elders. 10" house is the second to the 9" (denoting father) and the seventh to the 4" (indicating mother) 2 and 7 are
 Maraka Sthanas. Hence death of either of the parents and promotion in services come together. It is worthy to note that his father passed away immediately after Saturn Bhukti started, as it was in the constellation of lord of 10. Since 9" house indicates father, and birth was in Leo, Aries is the 9" house and Saturn is the Bhadhaka Sthanadhipathi to Aries. Hence, Saturn affected the longevity of father, on 27-6-'64 on Saturday in Uthrashada star when Moon transited in Saturn’s sign and in the constellation of the chief governor for father-Sun. Also Saturn transited in
 Sathabhisha star in Saturn’s sign and Rahu’s star. When one is running Rahu dasa Saturn bhukti, one will realise those results which are indicated by the planets in birth-chart, when they transit inthe star of Rahu in Saturn’s sign, i.e., Sathabhisha. This is an important ruling of the editor. (If the Bhukti is ruled by Mercury, the significator is to transit in Mercury's sign and Rahu’s star
 Arudhra. If the sub period is ruled by Venus, the significators have to transit in Rahu’s star Swathi in Venus sign-Libra.)
 The 10" house is Taurus. It is ruled by Venus. No planet occupies Taurus. Therefore consider Venus and planets occupying Venus star-Bharani, Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada are the three stars under the reign of Venus.
 Moon and Kethu are in the star Bharani; Saturn is in
 Poorvapaiguni. No planet in Poorvashada star. Hence Saturn,
 Moon and Kethu are under the sway of Venus and whatever Venus is to offer, would be given during the periods of Moon, Kethu and
 Saturn.
Moon indicates changes, transfers and life in a far-off place.
 Ketu shows a thorough change. Saturn offers responsible position.
 Venus owns two houses, Taurus and Libra. Taurus is the 10" house. As Venus owns it, find out whether Rahu or Kethu occupies either Taurus or Libra. Then the node is stronger than
 Venus. As Rahu was in Libra, at the time of birth, Rahu will prove to be fortunate. Actually, he had a good lift on 15" July, 1959, when Rahu Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Rahu Anthra was operating;
 Swathi was the Nakshathra on that day. .
 Jupiter, the chief governor for finance, is conjoined with
 Venus. So Jupiter will be favourable. As it was in Ketu’s star
 Makam and Ketu was in the 9" house, during Jupiter sub period, he was transferred to the north-east. Actually he was transferred to the administrative head office, in a town north-east of the place where he was, and became popular. The officials, the colleagues and all those with whom he came in contact, speak highly of his straightforward, honest and fair dealings. Integrity and sincerity stand to his credit. Thus it will be seen that:
(a) Rahu is the strongest benefic;
(b) Mercury gives good opportunity to show the talent during inspection.
(c) Mars adds. authority and power; (d) Venus bestows on him social and financial success; (e) Sun offers a permanent position in the Government;
(f) Jupiter increases income, changes the residence and office and improves status. It gives service in the Revenue Department;
(g) Moon indicates fortune in a foreign place, and so on.

- FUTURE PROSPECTS
(1) Rahu Dasa, Sani Bhukti, Rahu anthra, Sukra Shookshma
 November 1966-promotion.
(2) Rahu Dasa, Budha Bhukti, Moon Anthra-June 1968-
 Overseas.
(3) Rahu Dasa, Budha Bhukti, Rahu Anthra-October 1968- promotion.
(4) Rahu Dasa, Kethu Bhukti, Sani Anthra-worries and anxieties-May 1970.
(5) Rahu Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra-very popular and climax in career-November 1972-different nature of work.
(6) Rahu Dasa, Mars Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra. A covetable post will be offered in July, 1976.
(7) Retirement: Jupiter Dasa, Sani Bhukti, Ketu Anthra March 1980.


- RETIREMENT - WHEN?
 Houses 2, 6 & 10 indicate service. So 12" house to the above i.e 1,5 & 9 show end of service or retirement.
 Signification of 1,5, 9
 Saturn is in 1 and Mercury is in sat star. Sun is owner of 1 and no planets in sun star.
 No planet in 5. Jupiter is the owner. Mars is in Jupiter Star.
 Moon & Kethu are in 9 - No body in Moon Star. Venus &
 Jupiter are in Kethu star.
 Rahu also to he taken as Significater as it represent Venus and also aspected by Saturn & Moon.
 So all the nine planets come as significators. Remember nodes are stronger than planets.
At the time of retirement (normally around 60 year of age) he will me running Jupiter dasa Saturn Bhukti (from 28.5.79). Among the significators, Kethu is the strongest and hence choose Kethu
 Anthra.
 So at the time when sun transits in the sign governed by Jupiter (dasa Lord) in the star Uthrapadra (Bukthi Lord) and Kethu Sub (Anthara lord), on or around 21-3-1980 he will retire from service.
- GAIN BY LOTTERY - LUCK
 Sir,
 When | wrote a letter to you last month asking you to explain how one could be honoured at a time when one had sadesathi (seven and-half). | had, in fact, my horoscope in my mind, as, in
 Bombay all are frightening me by saying that | am having 7 1/2 years Saturn.
 The chart is as under
You may remember that when you visited Bombay in Aprii, 1960, you predicted that | should have gains without pains on various occasions in my life and one of the dates was in
 December, 1964 inspite of the so-called sade-Sati. It is really a pleasant surprise that | have got Rs.500/- as a prize for the prize bond of Rs.5/- denomination purchased by me on 16-4-1960 (on your advice) and the draw was held in Bombay on 1-12-64. The number of my prize bond is A.H. 268076. This is for your information.
 Answer:
 Very happy to know that you had come by fortune and thereby the prediction also has proved to be true.
 Sade-Sati is an excuse for the astrologer with half-baked knowledge, to explain the never ending difficulties and worries of native! It is a meaningless ‘Slogan’
 You are now running Rahu Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Sun Anthra.
 Actually you received, the cash on Monday ruled by Moon, in
 Swathi Star, ruled by Rahu. Why?
 Houses 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11, receiving favourable aspects promise victory over enemies; success in litigation; win in competition and gain in lottery, games, etc.
5" house shows the mind to speculate; the tendency, the opportunity to bet, etc. Houses 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 12 receiving good aspects are adverse, promise gain.
 The fifth house is Cancer. It is owned by Moon. It was in
 Sravanam star, governed by Moon itself. So Moon gives you the mind to speculate. Moon was in Capricorn, in the eleventh sign and the 11" Bhava. Therefore, gain without much effort is assured during its sub-period.
 Sun owns Leo, the 6" house. It is in its own constellation.
 What is the 6" house? Many, by mistake, think that it indicates only debts and diseases. They miss to note that it causes luck also. 7" house shows those who make similar attempts in
speculation-your competitors. Is not the 6" house, twelve to 7?
 Does it not indicate loss to them? Therefore, loss to competitors means gain to you. During Sun Bhukti, you had promotion.
 Further, Sun in 11, in Capricorn, will ever offer you success.
 Rahu, the beneficial node, representing Jupiter was in Pisces; in your ascendant. It was in Revathi star in the constellation of
 Mercury who occupies the 10" house and receives the aspect from Jupiter. Mercury, as lord of 4, if it would have been in 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 or 12 to your lagna, will cause loss to you and show disappointment. But planets in 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 and 11 indicate gains to you.
 Moon and Sun are in 11. Therefore, you had this, as predicted, during Rahu Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Sun Anthra on a day governed by Moon and at the time when Moon transited in Rahu’s star, Swathi.
 While Saturn was transiting in the other constellation of Rahu-
 Sathabisha, you received the prize. Saturn is lord of 11 and 12.
 It shows that you will gain and at once make purchases or spend away.
 Whenever one tries to find results by transit, it is necessary to note primarily the transit of the Dasanatha, Bhuktinadha, etc. and then, of all other planets.
 You are running Rahu Dasa. Rahu is transiting (according to Krishnamurti system) in Taurus, in Mrigasirisha star governed by Mars and in Saturn sub ruled by Saturn.
 Mars owns the second house and Saturn the 11". So you gain.
 Mars owns the 9" house; Saturn rules the 12"; so you make a long journey to a holy place.
 Mars owns the 2™ house and Saturn owns the 12". Hence, you make purchases.
 Mars owns the 9" house and Saturn the 11" house. So you, renew the friendship and you enjoy your life.
During the next year, such changes will not repeat.
 But after Rahu Dasa ends on 17-1-1966, during Jupiter Dasa,
 Saturn Bhukti, as | already predicted, after March 1968 you will have fortune to a greater extent. As Mercury’s sign Gemini is occupied by Jupiter, and Gemini is the third sign of the Zodiac, try lottery. Never go to races.

- LUCK BY RACES
 The ascendant was LIBRA. There was sudden gain during the period when he was running Moon Dasa, Moon Bhukti and
 Jupiter Anthra, on 8" May, 1955. But the money was received on gt May, 1955. (Monday, Jyeshta star, and in Cancer lagna)
 Given below are two charts, namely, (1) the native’s birth chart and (2) the chart for the moment when he received money.
 Generally it is said that houses 2 and 5 offer one the opportunity to make money by speculation, lottery, betting etc.
 The other houses do not indicate such sudden gains. If that is ° so, how can Moon in its dasa especially, in its bhukti, give gains without pains? 10" house indicates profession. Moon rules the 10" house. It also occupies its own rasi. How then has it given unexpected fortune?
 The prediction was based on Krishnamurti Padhdhati. A planet may own any house. It may occupy any house. But the sources of one’s income and his efforts in any direction are indicated by the lord of the sub-portion in the star. Moon was in
 Pushyam star ruled by Saturn. Pushyam extends from 3 degrees 20 minutes to 16 degrees 40 minutes in Katak. But Moon was in 13 degree 2 minutes. If you refer to the table you will note that between 12 degrees 53 minutes and 14 degree 53 minutes in the star Pushya ruled by Saturn, Rahu rules the sub. Therefore
 Moon is under the sway of both Saturn and Rahu. Saturn is lord
a of 5 and it is in the second bhava though in the third sign Dhanus.
 Hence, it gives the mind to speculate. Seven planets are in the sign Scorpio and also in the second bhava. It is a truism that
 Rahu or Kethu will ever be stronger than the lord of the house in which they are posited and also the planets with which they are conjoined. Hence, Rahu in Vrischika is to give the results of the lord of the sign in which it was posited (which in this case is
 Mars), and also the results of the other planets with which it was conjoined. Rahu is stronger than the other planets in the second house and its lord, Mars. As Moon was in Saturn’s star Pushyam and the sub of Rahu, Moon derives the power to give its results through the affairs indicated by the 5" and the 2” house.
 When Moon's dasa was on, the planet in the Moon's star or
 Moon’s sub can offer those results indicated by Moon. The only planet thus gaining the strength of Moon is Jupiter which was in
 Scorpio (Vrischika) in its own star Visakam and in the sub of
 Moon.
!f one is to gain in a competition or in betting, the opponent will lose equally. The opponent is indicated in all horoscopes by the seventh cusp and house Loss is indicated by the 12" house.
 Therefore, the 12 house to the seventh, is the 6" house, to the native. Therefore, the lord of the 6" house and the planet in 6 will bring about loss to the opponent and the native will gain. Jupiter is the lord of the sixth house. No planet in Jupiter star. Hence,
 Jupiter and Moon alone can give this result. That is to bring about loss to the opponent and gain, suddenly to the native through betting etc., provided the dasa lord has anything to do with the fifth and the second houses.
 According to the Udu dasa system and according to
 Gochara, why should he have the beneficial result on 9-5-1955.
 All along, it was discussed that the planets, Moon and Jupiter, promise gains by speculation. That Swabhukti will be indifferent or bad, is generally predicted by astrologers who simply reproduce the slokas without doing research based on actual facts. It should be noted that during the time when Jupiter transits the sign ruled by the lord of dasa, the dasanatha will confer
favourable results. Therefore, in the present case, at the time
 Jupiter transits in Cancer ruled by Moon, lucky time has/to be predicted. According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the sub-portion should be ruled by Moon. Actually on 8" and 9" May, 1955,
 Jupiter was in 3 degrees 25 to 30 minutes in Cancer.
 One may ask why this native should not again similarly secure such again in Moon dasa, Jupiter sub-period and Moon or Jupiter sub-period. He is correct but hasty. He has to note whether, at that time Jupiter will transit in the sign ruled by dasanatha Moon or Bhuktinatha Guru. This position will not be repeated. But during that period, the native had larger income from his permanent possessions and improvement in service.
 Always the dasa system, and Gocharam, will agree. One will enjoy the results without fail if K.P. is followed.
 At the moment the native received the cash, the lagna was the first degree in Cancer and Moon was in Jyeshta Mercury’s star in Mars sign Vrischika. The day was Monday ruled by the dasanatha Moon.

- FINANCE BY BORROWING
 Loan is raised either when one spends or has to spend more than what he has on hand as also his income. Therefore, to know why and when debt is incurred, the horoscopes are to be examined to ascertain how money is earned or received and the cause of one’s necessity to spend as well as the extent to which he is to meet the expenses.
 Second house indicates one’s bank position. cash on hand and readily cashable, movable property. Tenth house shows
one’s profession and inheritance. Eleventh house is the balance.
sheet indicating one’s net profit. One may earn money through the sources indicated by houses 1 to 10 (i.e., 1* house, by his exertion; 2"! self-acquisition; 3° through brother, short journey, touring, agency, editing; 4° education or transport department
or through mother; 5" through speculation, cinema, music, children; 6" by serving others; 7" by business and through partners; 8" by insurance, legacy; 9" long journey, connection with foreigners; 10" through his own profession, business or ancestral property.) The house 12 indicates the expenses. Hence the benefits from houses 1 to 10 are added together and the loss from house 12 is deducted; the net balance is called the profit which is shown by the 11" house.
 Generally, houses 2, 10 and 11 are studied to understand how one makes money: 6" house denotes why, when, and the extent to which one borrows; 8" house indicates either loss and misery or unexpected gains; or clearing off loan or lending money; 12" house indicates one’s expenses, investments, repayment of loan or lending money, etc. Therefore, a careful consideration of the houses 6, 8 and 12 will indicate one’s commitments, expenses, loss and the necessity to borrow.
 The, Ascendant indicates the person who borrows. The 7" house from his Lagna denotes the gentleman or the lady or the banker who advances the Idan.
 Sixth house denotes debts. What is a loan? It is an income to the person. His bank position improves by borrowing. To the
 Person lending money, the sixth house is the twelfth (7" being his ascendant). i.e., it is a deterioration in his bank Position to the extent to which he advances the loan. Therefore, debt is, the receipt of money by the person who borrows and expenses to one who lends.
 As parting with money for expenses may be to discharge one's debts, 12” house of a person shows clearing off loans or part payment towards the debts already incurred. Is not the 12” house, the sixth from the 7"? Hence, to the native who borrows from this person or who receives back the loan; already lent, the 12" house indicates the receipt to the man with whom the transaction is done and who is indicated by the 7" house.
 Hence the 6" house indicates raising of loan (receipt of money and the 12™ house denotes repayment of loan or
expenses. Kalidasa ain Uthra-Kalamritha has said that 12" house is to be judged for clearing off loans.
 What about the 8" house?
 The 8" house is the second to the 7”. Second house shows one’s finance, whereas 7" house denotes one with whom a transaction is done. Suppose there is an evil planet in the 8" house of a person: it means that the evil is in the second house to one who transacts. It threatens that the person with whom the money transaction is done, will lose money and there will be difficulty.
 But, if a benefic is in the 8" house, it promises the regaining of money with pleasure. “Sowmyae Ranthrae Dhanapthi” says
 Mahadeva. Everybody in this world will try to maintain prestige.
 None would wish to borrow unless cu cumstances force him to do so. If one has borrowed, he would desire to return it much earlier than the time required by him to repay.
if the sublord of 8" cusp is the significator of houses 5, 6,8 and 12 difficulties come as a battalion and he has to face them by borrowing from his friends A to Z.
 But if the sublord of the 8" Cusp is the Significator of 2, 10 or 141™ houses and if its period or sub-period runs, with pleasure, he returns the money.
 The tenth house shows one’s profession, receipt of money, etc. Tenth house to the 7" opponent or Jender is the fourth house to the native. Therefore, 4" house also indicates return of 1.oney, by the person, and the discharge of debts.
 The eleventh house shows profit. The principal and the interest are indicated by the 11" house in the native’s chart if he has lent money. But if he has borrowed, the 11" to the 7" shows the return of the amount. Therefore 5" house indicates discharge of debts.
 Therefore receipt of money is indicated by the houses 2, 6, 10 and 11 whereas the discharge of debts can be read from the houses 4, 5, 8 and 12.
If benefical planets occupy, own or aspect favourably the houses 2, 10 and 11, one will make money in their periods and sub periods, in their star days and week days. So also, benefics occupying the houses 4, 5, 8 or 12 or owning or aspecting these houses, or planets in the constellation of the occupants and owners of these houses indicate the discharge of the loan in their dasa, bhukti and anthara, in their week days and star days.
 Planets in 2, 10 and 11 and in the Sub of Significators of 4, 5, 8 or 12 reduce one’s income and there will be difficulty to make money. Similarly planets in 4, 5, 8 and 12 will increase the expenses if the sublord is the significator of 4,5, 8 or 12 and they will not allow one to discharge the loan. But in their dasas and bhukties the native will suffer mental agony, anxiety, pressure, worry, depression, irritation, illrepute, humiliation etc.
 This is the scientific explanation for a few houses being considered for the raising of funds and the rest for repayment.
 Now, let us find out why one has to borrow and when.
 When the sublord of 6 is also the Significator of 12 and associated with the houses 6, 8 or 12 the debt is incurred due to (1) one’s ill-health or the expenses of his or her partner (12" to 7%), ill-health of partner (6" to 7"), unexpected loss, (8" and 12") investment, etc.
 By association, is meant that, (a) the house may be occupied by or aspected by a planet or (b) the lord of the house may occupy the houses 6, 8 or 12 or be conjoined with them or aspected by inem. The following is the chart of a person who is ever in debts.
(1) Lagna is occupied by Saturn, the lord of 8. It is in the constellation of the lords of 6 (Punarvasu star ruled by Jupiter).
 The lord of Lagna is in the constellation of Jupiter, the lord of 6. It is occupying the 8" house.
 Mercury, the lord of 12, aspects the Ascendant.
 So ascendant is occupied by the lord of 8 and aspected by the lord of 12. The lord of the lagna is 8 in the constellation of the
lord of 6. Here, the lord of Lagna is associated with the lord of 6.
 Lagna is associated with the lords of 8 and 12.
(2) When the lord of the second house is also the Significator of 6", 8" or 12 house debt is caused by (a) expenses in the family, (6) medical bill for eye or throat treatment of the person, or (c) danger to partner, (d) or due to the loss of an younger brother, or (e) payment to mother or (f) to one’s children at the time of their appointment or promotion or (g) as loan to father either for his business or to meet his loss. There will not be much difficulty to raise the loan. It may be hand loan or one kept in the suspense account.
(8) When the sublord of the cusp of 3% house, or its lord is also the Significators of 6 or 12 the debt may be incurred due to the native’s brother; if posited in male sign, and to sister if posited in female sign. The lord of 3 ina male sign and Mars ina female sign indicate expenses through both brother and sister. It may be raised to help a neighbour; or one may stand surety for another; or may borrow money to make short journeys, purchase
a printing press or take up any agency or contract. Some may pledge shares, certificates and documents or ear rings, necklace, bangles, rings etc., to raise the loan if the 3° house is connected with 6" house. If however houses 8 and 12 are associated, the sale of these jewels is indicated.
(4) Should the significator of 4 and Moon be associated with house 6, 8 or 12 the debt may be raised either through mother or for purchase of cattle or animals. If the significator of 4 and
 Mars are associated with 6, 8 or 12, one may borrow for the purchase of land, buildings, etc. Even raising a loan by pledging a house or land is indicated by the significator of 4 connected with the 6" house. The lord of 4 connected with the houses 3, 8 or 12 indicate generally the disposal of the Property.
 If the lord of 6 has no connection with any benefic, but occupies the 9" house then, during the period of the lord of 4, the property may be brought to auction, sold or appropriated by the opponent.
(5) If the significator of 5 and Jupiter are connected with houses 6, 8 or 12, debts are caused on account of children (their education or danger to their lives). Or one may borrow due to the loss in speculation, cinema or any other risky enterprises or love affairs.
(6) If the significator of 6 is associated with Saturn, debt is caused due to the persistent inimical activity of the opponents, or due to loss by theft, and disease, Jupiter connected with them indicates that the necessity for borrowing is due to litigation.
 Jupiter, Mars and Sun connected with them indicate debts due to election.
lf the significator of 7 and the lords of 2 and 10 are connected with houses 6, 8 or 12 debt is due to the partner in business. But if Venus and the significator of 7 are associated with 6, 8 or 12 the debt is caused through one’s wife. If Jupiter and Significator of 7 are connected with 6, 8 or 12, litigation may need a large sum of money or one may borrow to meet the expenses of the second son. Waist belts made of gold etc. may be pledged.
(8) Should the Significator of 8 be associated with the houses 1, 8 or 12, and if a malefic also aspects, debts are caused due to enemies, danger, disease, difficulties, disharmony, dispute etc. (9) If the 9" house or the Significator of 9 is connected with the lords of 6, 8 or 12 or the houses 6, 8 or 12 then the necessity to borrow may be due to father, or wife’s younger brother or sister (there are people who incur debt to celebrate sister-in law's marriage), or due to his partner’s Journey, or through the third child or the native going on a long journey or overseas or for higher studies. (10) If the Significator of 10 and Sun are associated with the houses 6, 8 or 12 one may have to borrow to repay the debts left behind by father or due to business. (11) If the Significator of 11 is associated with the houses 8 or 12 the debts may be due to the native's standing surety to a friend.
 If the Significator of 11 and Mars are associated together with the houses 8 or 12 one may incur debts due to an elder brother.
 Rahu dasa Balance 9 years, 5 months and 18 days.
 When this native was running Saturn Dasa, Mars Bhukti,
 Jupiter Anthra he stood surety to his elder brother born in
 Anuradha star. Unfortunately in the beginning of December 1953, his elder brother, within a month, after the transaction passed away and the native had to return the loan through his nose.
 If the lord of 11 and Sun are associated with the houses 8 or 12, one incurs debt due to his father's younger brother.
 If the lord of 11, Jupiter and Venus are connected with the houses 8 or 12, one incurs debt due to son-in-law.
(12) Lord of 12 and Saturn generally cause loss by theft, fraud, deception, etc. and also due to the action of the secret enemies. People having Saturn in 12 and Mars or Kethu in 2, should be very careful; they should not leak out any of their secret, unlawful action, in an unguarded moment to men in power, e.g. police, Income-tax official, etc. When they run the conjoined period of Saturn in 12, and Mars or Kethu in 2, they will be taken to task. Even if Saturn is in 3, 6, or 10 it can throw aspect to the 42% house and bring about the sudden fall to the person. That is why, sages are of strong opinion that Saturn in “he 10" house gives sudden rise in one's career only for a big pitfall, later.
 Also, lord of the 12 house may be the cause for borrowing money to celebrate the marriage of servants.
 WHEN? So far, why one has to borrow was discussed. Now it should be understood that the planets indicating the necessity to borrow will give the results in their dasas and bhukties and also the day, the Star on that day, the Lagna, Rasi and the constellation which will be ruled by them. (The significators will form favourable aspect with their original position at the time of birth).
 How many persons there are who, even after borrowing need more money and suffer just like a person who having married a girl who has not attained age continues to be mostly a bachelor.
 Such persons, even in want, are born in the yoga termed as
“Dharidhra yoga” i.e. the relative disposition of planets causing poverty. For them, it will be difficult even to raise funds. They have to make many attempts and at the time they receive money they get vexed and dejected as the amount received will not be sufficient. It will disappear in no time. It will be spent away.
 Such yogas are mentioned below: (Hindu).
1. If the lord of lagna is connected with the lord of 7 and if the lords of 1 and 12 are in mutual exchange.
2. When the lords of 1 and 6 exchange places and Moon is aspected by the lords of the 2" and 7" houses;
3. Lord of Lagna in the eighth house is associated with the lord of 2 or 7.
4. The Lord of Lagna in 8 is associated with the lords 2 and — 7 and a malefic;
5. The lord of 5 in 6, 8 or 12, devoid of connection with a benefic;
6. The lord of 5 in 6 or 10, aspected by the lord of 2, 6, 7 or 8 and
7. Natural malefics (without being the lords of 9" and 10" houses) occupy Lagna associated by lords of 2 or 7.
 Dharidhra yoga means that one will continue to borrow for ever. He will have a list of those who can lend money. 5" house denotes the thought of a person. Moon indicates mind. If Moon is in 5 and is conjoined with Kethu, one will be ever planning how to raise a loan, whom to approach, etc., will somehow manage to borrow only to find that his position has not improved. This is especially true in those cases where there is no planet in 2 or 12 to Moon, and no benefic in 4, 7 or 10 when counted from the
 Moon sign.
    - HINDU
 Debt is also caused by the mere occupation of a rasi by certain planets and a few other connections:
1, Mars in Pisces with Sun, Moon and Saturn;
2. Mercury occupying either of the houses owned by Saturn; 3. Mercury in Taurus shows debts through relations;
4. Mars and Saturn in 12 denote debts through brothers and sisters;
5. Jupiter in 12 associated with a malefic shows that one will borrow to pay taxes;
6. Sun and Moon in 12 or Sun, Rahu and Venus in 12 show debt due to litigation;
7. Pisces, Leo or Sagittarius being the ascendant with Moon in Aquarius or Venus in Scorpio or Jupiter in the 8" house, indicate loan raised for donation, charity, endowment etc.
 People, who advance loans, and also borrow money due to any of the above-mentioned causes, will have the following combinations:
1. Find out the house occupied by the lord of Lagna. Note in which Navamsa sign he was at the time of birth. Find out the lord of the Navamsa sign occupied by the lord of lagna. If the lord of the Navamsa sign occupies friend’s quarters and receives aspect from Jupiter, he will lend money.
2. Find out the lords of the navamsa signs occupied by the lords of 2 and 11. If in the rasi Kundali, birth chart, the lords of the Navamsa signs occupy a Kendhra Sthana (1, 4, 7 or 10 counted from the ascendant) he will advance the loan.
 If you find the following Yogas in the horoscope of those who want you to lend money to them, be sure that you cannot have it repaid as they can never discharge the loan before they retire from service or from the world itself:
(1) If, in the borrower's horoscope, the lord of 2 is debilitated or eclipsed or posited at the end of a rasi governed by a malefic;
(2) or if the lord of 2 is in 6 or 12, with the lord of 12 in 2. and the lord of 11 in any one of the three Dush Sthanas 6, 8 or 12; ee
(3) or the lord of Lagna in 12, malefic in 2 and the lord of 10 is associated with the lord of 11. These combinations are found in the horoscopes of a few members of the co-operative societies who will ever borrow to the maximum eligibility by way of (a) Permanent loans, (b) Emergency loan, (c) Thrift fund loan, (d) Provident Fund (e) Insurance loan, (f) Hand loan, (g) By pledging movable property and (h) By mortgaging immovable properties.
 Can one discharge the loan and be free from worry?
(1) Find out when he will borrow; i.e., the yogas causing the need to raise a loan, the Dasa and Bhukti of those Planets.
(2) Find out whether he will live long after borrowing.
(3) Find out whether there will be time enough for the periods and sub periods of the planets promising the opportunity to wash off loans, after the yoga to borrow is over.
 Debt can be realised when one runs the beneficial periods of the planets occupying or owning the houses 2, 6, 10 and 11 and when one who borrowed money, runs the period of the
 Significators of 2, 6, 10 or 11 counted from his 7" house. They are 8, 12, 4 and 5 counted from the lagna of the borrower's horoscope. Benefics occupying the houses 4, 5, 8 and 12 indicates that during their periods one will clear off the debts.
 Ifone is not able to return, will he be put into trouble? Will he lose his prestige and reputation? Or will he be drawn to Civil
 Court and even to get imprisoned?
 Loss of reputation, imprisonment, etc. are threatened by the malefics posited in 2, 5, 9 and 12.
 If Scorpio happens to be the 5", 9" or 12 house and Saturn be posited therein, not only will he be unable to repay, but also he may be manhandled and drawn to the court of law. His reputation will be at stake. Kalachakra dasa of the lord of the 6” house indicates similar undesirable results.
 Even though a person may be born a King or a Kubera, if his lord of Lagna is eclipsed, in enemy's camp, debilitated and is in 6", 8" or 12" house associated with the lords of 2 and 7, without any association with a benefic, he must borrow. Similarly, a person born to a multimillionaire wil! borrow, if Sun and Saturn occupy the second house.
 Where to go to raise a loan, will be the problem. The direction in which one can go for borrowing money is indicated by (a) the rasi in which the lord of the second house is posited, (b) or by the direction of the rasi occupied by lord of 11 and (c) by the lord whose Bhukti operates.
 If the above lords are in direct motion, attempts made in the direction mentioned, will be helpful. if however, the lords be retrograde one can make attempts in all directions and there will be grand success in all quarters. Suppose one is born in the sign Leo as ascendant, then the lord of 2 and 11 happens to be
 Mercury. When one runs Mercury sub period and it was in direct motion at the time of birth, one can meet a banker in the north as
 Mercury indicates north direction and he will be successful only there. Even if Mercury is in the 10" house, one s' ould try in the north. If Mercury was retrograde at the time of birth, he can try anywhere. He is sure to come out successful.
 One should also consider the house (bhava) in which the lord of 1, 2 and the Bhuktinatha was. If they were in the 3% house, he may have it from his brother or neighbour and also by executing a bond. If they were in the 4" house, his close relative
 Or one in the same locality will lend. Ifin the 9" house, the banker may be a stranger or one who lives far away. Ifin the 11° house, elder brother or sister or a friend or father’s younger brother may help. Ifin the 10" house, either in the office or from the officer he
borrow. Or one may pledge Government bonds if Mercury is in 10. If they are in the 6" house, one may take money from his subordinates as loan.
 The planet in the 6" house shows that one may raise a loan by pledging any of his possessions. One should judge the houses 4, 10 and 11 to redeem them: but houses 8 and 12 denote that the pledged property will be disposed of ultimately.
 Here is the sincere advice to clear off one’s loans easily, with pleasure.
 Borrow an amount which is a little greater than the need; if you want Rs. 10,000 borrow Rs. 12,000.
 Keep separately Rs. 2,000 - the excess.
 Wait for the day when the star is either Aswini or Anuradha.
 Select the Lagna-Aries if it is Aswini Star day or the Lagna-
 Scorpio, if it is Anuradha.
 At the time, repay these 2,000 rupees as a part-payment.
 This guarantees, that you will be fortunate and repay the full amount in a very short period.
 Or, you select either a Tuesday or a Saturday or a Sunday.
 On that day, the thithi should be either Chathurthi or Chathurdasi.
 Work out and ascertain in which sign Gulika will be on that day.
 If possible, calculate the correct time and repay a part of the loan at that time, so that Gulikha is exactly in Lagna. You will be surprised to see, that you are able to clear the full loan in avery short period.
 Or select a Saturday and let the ascendant be in a movable sign, either Aries, Cancer, Libra or Capricorn.
 Itis always advisable to have a malefic in the 8" house to the
 Lagna at which time the part-payment is made.
 Please remember that one should never lend or borrow on eclipse days when the Yoga is Vyatheepada as it threatens danger to both the borrower and banker.
 Now one may ask, whether by following the advice, one can
 Clear off the loans quickly. The answer is ‘Yes’. Everybody may try to repay at such atime. Only those who are lucky (according to their horoscope) to be free from the loan shortly, will repay knowingly or unknowingly at this hour. Experience confirms this
declaration.
- FREE FROM DEBTS
 When a person is born, he inherits the assets and the liabilities of his or her parents. As years pass on, even when the parents are alive, one may save separately some amount or incur debts.
 After the demise of one’s parents, one may have to borrow if the expenses outweigh the income. One may have decent bank
 Position for some years. Then he may have to borrow. Later he
 May return and clear off either part of the loan or discharge it in full. ee
 All these depends on the dasa and bhukti which follow one after the other.
 One deposits money in the bank when one has income more than his expenses at that time. It is indicated by the houses 2, 10 and 11. 6" is for borrowing and thereafter depositing.
 The second house is for self acquisition and bank position, the 6" house for ‘Borrowing’; the 10" house means profession and the 11" house indicate ‘profit’.
 During the conjoined period of the Significators of 2"° and 6 one will borrow. The 8" house threatens risk, danger and loss or a windfall if the Significator of 8 is also Significator of 6 and 11.
 The 12" house indicates expenses, purchases, donation, repayment of loan etc.
 The Lagna represents the person to whom the horoscope belongs. The seventh house denotes the persons who either lends or borrows. As loan is an income to the borrower, it is the expenses or investment to the lender which is indicated by the 12" house to the 7" house. Therefore, one has to examine the 6" house for the debts.
 Expenses include the discharge of loan. It may be a part- payment towards the debts or one may clear off the loans and be free from it. Bank overdratt is also indicated by the 6” house and discharging it is judged from the 12" house. In Uthra
 Kalamritha, Kalidas has said that one has to consider the 12” house for the clearance of loan.
 As the second house denotes one’s financial position the second to the seventh shows the finance of one with whom the native transacts. Suppose there is a benefic in the 8" Bhava, it means that the person with whom one transacts, is lucky during the period of the planet in 8. Generally, one regains the money that is lent to others. In a few cases, it so happens that one is to consider oneself lucky, if he somehow or other has his money returned by the person who borrowed. In the latter case, the persons who borrowed will have a benefic in 8. The borrower
will gain without effort. So he repays. Fhat is why, he who lent
 Money is lucky, during the period of the benefic in the 8" house.
 If circumstances force one, he borrows. Is there anybody who would not mind maintaining one’s prestige? No, everybody will try to keep up his or her word and maintain one’s family Prestige honour, etc. All will make efforts to return the amount borrowed in time. He can do so, if there is a benefic in the 8" house especially the lord of 12. The lord of 12 in 8 will cause Vipareetha
 Raja yoga. Suppose Jupiter is the lord of 12, and it is in the 8" house, it can aspect one’s 12" house and 2™ house. Therefore, people born in Makara-Capricorn Lagna will return their debts during Jupiter's periods and sub periods, without strain.
 Suppose there is an evil in the 8" house. It means that he who lends money has a malefic in the 2" house to the 7". As malefics in the second house threaten loss of money during its period and sub periods, one will lend money to the native of the horoscope having a malefic in the 8" house and will be depressed, disappointed and irritated during its period as the borrower is not able to return the loan. Those who lend money should note, whether the borrower has a benefic or a malefic in 8 before lending money so that he may know where he stands.
 These are the methods to be followed.
 This native is born in Libra Ascendant. Mars in Aries is in the 6" house. Jupiter owns the 6" house.
 Therefore, note the constellations of Mars and Jupiter.
 Mars rules Mrigasirisha, Chitra and Dhanishta - Jupiter governs Punarvasu, Visaka and Poorvapathrapatha.
 Find out the planets situated in the constellation of Mars and
 Jupiter; Also, note which planets are in the sub of Mars and
 Jupiter. They indicate (a) the necessity to borrow money, and (b) the time of raising the loan. -
 So also note the planets occupying the constellation of the lord of 8 (venus, a benefic) and the lord of the 12" house.
 Sun: Labhadhipathi, lord of 11, who is to give you profit,
who is to increase your income, as it aspects the 11" house one will normally predict, that you should gain and there is no necessity to borrow. But, actually you had been borrowing. Why?
 Because Sun was in the constellation of Jupiter, the lord of 6 and the sub of mercury, lord of 12. Hence during the period of Sun, you will borrow from A, and repay it, then borrow from B, repay and so on.
 Moon was in Mercury’s star and Rahu sub. Hence, Moon indicates repayment by making money in your profession.
 Rahu in 11, in the constellation of the lord of 11 and in the sub of Moon, promises that you will have no debts in the conjoined period of Moon and Rahu.
 As you had 7 years, 11 months and 26 days of Mercury Dasa at birth, you enter into Moon dasa on 5-3-’64,
 Therefore between 5-8-’65 and 5-2-’67 you will repay and clear off your debts.
 As ‘A’ dasa, ‘B’ Bhukti, ‘A’ Anthra will offer the result to the full extent, Moon anthra, in Moon dasa, Rahu Bhukti shows the time when you are free from debts, i.e., 20-11-1966 to 4-1-1967.

- THEFT AND RECOVERY
 Madras-4, 5-2-65.
 Dear Sir,
 You predicted in your class in Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, '
 Madras Kendhra on 8-11-64.
 Some of my jewels, silver articles, silk sarees and cash were stolen away from my house during the day time (between 8-15 a.m. and 12.30 p.m.)
 You took my horoscope and also asked me to give a number within 108. I told you 16.
In the class, you discussed and explained and your students took notes also. You said “your property is intact. All of them will be returned to you. One male and two females are involved in the theft. You will be called to identify the property after 10-1- ’65. The thief will be black in complexion. He is a youngman.
 He will be caught by the police when he makes similar attempts.
 Be cheerful and thank God that you are lucky to have them back.
 I suggest you to have a “Godrej” or “Allwyn” or “Khira” Almirah in your house. Also, let me know in February or March, what happened.”
 The thief was caught on 20-1-1965. He is a young man black in colour. He is an ex-convict. Two women were also involved.
 He is a dangerous K.D.
 Except 3 articles worth about 3 sovereigns, all the gold jewels, all silk sarees and all silver vessels etc., were recovered from him.
 Articles worth about 6 sovereigns were melted away by him and he made two pairs of bangles.
lam glad to say that the thief was convicted and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for four years. The stolen property worth Rs. 3,000 was handed over to me.
| place on record my deep and sincere appreciation of your correct prediction about the stolen property.
! thank you immensely because your uncanny prediction, boldly declared in the presence of nearly 60 students, in such a detail, gave me and my wife sufficient strength to withstand the shock when we were worried about the loss of property and with that mental strength due to the faith in your prediction, we were able to wait calmly till the thief was caught.
 Yours faithfully, (Sd) S. GOVINDAN
 On 8-11-'64, the map of the heavens was as follows.
The number given was 16. Therefore divide 16 by 9. Quotient is 1. Remainder is 7. Therefore Ist sign Aries is over: The 7” pada in Taurus is the Lagna.
 Because, the Zodiac is 360°. It is divided by 12 spokes.
 Therefore each arc is 30° in longitude. They are called Rasi: sign or solar mansion. The same Zodiac is divided into 27 equal parts; each is 13° 20'; each is called an asterism, star, constellation or Nakshathra. Each star is divided into 4 equal parts and each part called pada or quarter will be 3° 20’. Hence the Zodiac is divided into 108 equal parts. And, the number mentioned by the querist is that pada counted from Aries 0° or Mesha 0° or Aswini
 Nakshathra, first pada. Hence No. 16 is to be divided by 4 (four padas in each star): 16 can be divided by 4 times and the remainder will be Zero, i.e., 4 full Stars, ie., Aswini, Bharani,
 Karthika and Rohini. A doubt arises whether to take Rohini 4" pada or Mrigasira first quarter. As 16" part of the 108 divisions is to be taken, take Rohini 4" quarter.
 One should divide the number given by the querist, in such away, that there is some remainder, either 1 or 2or3 or 4. So 16 is to be divided by 4 only thrice and should have a remainder of 4.
 Therefore number 16 means Rohini 4" pada, i.e. 20° to 23° 20' in Taurus. The Navamsa Lagna is Cancer, a movable sign.
 Lagna and the aspect to either the ascendant or to the lord of the ascendant itdicates whether one can have a favourable answer from the astrologer or not.
 Moon and the aspect of Moon indicates the nature of the query, the case of his worry etc.
 Taurus rises. Its ruler is Venus. It appears to be debilitated in the rasi but it is exalted in Navamsa. It is 108° away from the ascendant i.e., the aspect from the lord of the Lagna to the
 Ascendant is favourable. Therefore, first tell the querist that No.16 promises him “Good Luck”. This is the duty of the astrologer.
 Then analyse, think loud, make him understand that you apply
the science in full and give your prediction without any doubt.
 Never use the words “Likely”, “May”, “I think” etc.
 Moon is in Sagittarius. No doubt, it is the 8" sign. But it is in
 Moolam second quarter. So it comes to 7" Bhava or house as the Lagna is between 20° and 23° 20’.
 Moon in the 7* house indicates litigation or theft. Moon in
 Ketu’s Star Moolam and in conjunction with Ketu shows that the querist is confused and is very much worried.
 As the querist has already informed that he had lost his property, it is for the astrologer to find out (a) whether the person will have the property back or not, (b) the description of the thief or thieves and (c) the time when he can recover the stolen property.
 One's possessions are indicated by the 2™, 4" and 11% houses. Second house shows the movable property, the 4” house signifies the immovable property, and the 11™ house denotes one’s profit and savings. Lord of 2 Mercury should : indicate his readily cashable possessions and other movable
 Properties. As the node Rahu is in Gemini (though in Lagna
 Bhava) Rahu, automatically becomes the agent of Mercury.
 Hence Rahu indicates his movable property.
 Sun, the lord of the 4" house, is in 6. 6" house is 12" to 7".
 Hence it indicates loss to the thief: at least no gains, no benefit to the thief by Sun who denotes permanent possession. Actually the person has not lost any property-land or building.
11" house is Pisces. No planet is in Pisces. Jupiter rules the sign. It is in the 12° house. So his saving is lost, but it is retrograde. So, the loss is only for a temporary period. If Jupiter would have been in direct motion and if the 11" house is unoccupied, he can never get the lost property. A planet, in direct motion, gives a result and confirms it. A’ planet, in retrograde, will produce a result which will fall through when it takes direct motion.
Jupiter owns two houses, Sagittarius and Pisces. Rahu or
 Ketu in either of the two, is stronger than Jupiter, Ketu is in
 Sagittarius. Therefore Kethu is stronger than Jupiter. It is ever retrograde. It is in the second sign to the seventh Cusp and is in the 7" house (i.e. Lagna of the thief. Ketu who is to represent
 Jupiter as lord of 2 to the 7" house is in the thief's Lagna Bhava in retrograde). Hence Ketu indicates that the thief cannot have the property as his own, for ever.
 Therefore, the querist will get back the stolen property, without fail. So, declare thatthe lost ones will surely be recovered.
 Similarly consider the 11" house (house of profit) to the thief i.e. 11" to the 7". Scorpio is the 7" house. Virgo is the 11* to it.
 Mercury rules that sign. It is in direct motion and is in the 6"
 Bhava to Taurus —i.e., 12 to the 7" Cusp and 7" house. Therefore
 Mercury threatens that he cannot have them for ever.
 The description of the thief or thieves is judged frum the seventh house. Scorpio is the seventh house. Its ruler is Mars.
 According to the Hindus, Mars aspects Scorpio. Hence Mars, a masculine planet owning the seventh house, strong in triplicity, aspecting the seventh house indicates that the thief is a male, a young man and a bold culprit. Mars aspected by Saturn, occupying Leo suggests that he will be dark in complexion.
 The seventh Bhava is occupied by Moon and Ketu. Rahu and Ketu will give first, the result of the planets with which they are conjoined and then only the results of the lord of the sign. As
 Moon is feminine, Moon and Ketu indicate two ladies. Ketu which is to indicate the results of Jupiter who owns the second house to the seventh, has actually done his work. Because, the fact is that the two women were involved in disposing a portion of the property (second house is to make money; convert into cash etc.)
 Therefore a young blackman and two other ladies should be the culprits.
To regain what one has lost is a fortune. Such fortunate results can be given only by the lord of the 11" house. The eleventh house is owned by Jupiter. So he must gain strength so that the person can have his property. At the time of query, it was retrograde. So, he cannot have them, during the period of
 Jupiter's retrograde motion. Jupiter becomes stationary and takes direct motion on 10" January 1965. Therefore, you cannot! have it before 10-1-’65, so, do not worry at all. Wait. After 10-1- ’65, you must have it.
 According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati Jupiter should transit inthe star of the lord of the 12" house to the 7"/.e., 6" house and the sub of the second or 11" house. Jupiter, after direct motion, can transit only in the star of Venus (lord of the 12" house to the seventh) and in the sub of Mercury in Bharani star. That is, according to Nirayana system Jupiter should transit between 24° and 25°31’ i.e. between 5" February 1965 and 19" February 1965.
 Actually you have received them only then.
 When Can | Commit theft successfully?
 The Conjoined period and Subperiod of the Significators of 2, 6 and 11 and not connected with 5 or 8 or 12, show that one can gain by theft successfully.

- (BROTHERS AND SISTERS )
    - (Hindu Traditional Astrology)
 Third house counted from Lagna, if it is not afflicted, or from
 Moon sign, if it is more auspicious and strong, indicates all about brothers and sisters.
 Third house denotes the next conception by mother: the 5" indicates the second conception: the 7" shows the third younger brother or sister and so on.
“Karako Bhava Nasaya” fails miserably, as many people having Mars in the 3° house, are born with many brothers both
younger and elder. But one is to judge the 3 house counted from the position of Mars. tf Mercury, Moon, Mars and Jupiter are in 3 and 11 from Lagna or lord of Lagna there will be many brothers. Ketu therein shows sisters.
 The number of brothers and sisters is ascertained from the
 Strength of the third house and its lord, the rasi and the navamsa of the 3 house. Also it is guessed from the navamsa of the
 Occupant of the 3 house and Karaka, Mars. The number of sisters is found from the female planets in 9 and the brothers from the male planets in the 9" house.
    - KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI
 According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati it is the sublord of the
 Cusp of a house which indicates whether the matters of the houses are positive or negative. If the sublord of the third Cusp is in the
 Constellation of a planet occupying a dual sign or it itself is in a dual sign or if the cusp receives good aspects from a planet in a dual sign. (e.g., Mars from Gemini by the 8" aspect aspecting the 3” house Capricorn where the 3° cusp falls.) Only in these cases there will be plurality of brothers or sisters or both. In case of twins, when one of them happens to be a boy, the other a girl then ven though according to traditional system the Lagna remains in the same sign, star and navamsa., Yet to each the number of brothers or sisters will be found. Traditional Astrology cannot be helpful. Because the twin brother will have among brothers one less and among sisters one more. But the twin sister will have among brothers one more and among sisters one less. Le., if other than the twins whose parents would have had two sons and two daughters then the twin boy will have two brothers and three sisters whereas the twin sisters will have three brothers and two sisters. Therefore, it is the cusp of a Bhava which will decide whether there will be plurality of brothers or sisters and at the same time according to K.P it is not yet found possible to find out a single rule to give the number of brothers or sisters and also the sex. No doubt the research is being done by very able and intelligent astrologers at Delhi. And | am sure that it would be
possible to give correctly the results which will be 100% successful.
 It will be published in the Magazine ASTROLOGY & ATHRISHTA’.
 If one is to find out the longevity of the next younger born it is advisable to take the 3 cusp as the ascendant of the next younger and then for that locality of birth (Latitude) one is to find out the cusps of the other houses keeping the 3 cusp as the ascendant.
 Then only the sub lord of the 3% cusp will vary. Otherwise when the 9" cusp indicates Father then the younger one’s partner in life will also be indicated by 9" cusp. (7 to 3°) The ruling planets at the moment of the birth of father, and sister's husband or brother’s wife will not be the'same. So by research it has been decided that the 3% cusp must be taken as the lagna of the younger and then for that Latitude the other cusps should be worked out. Now the 9" cusp according to one’s horoscope indicates father, the 7" cusp to the 3° (which forms the lagna of the younger) indicates the partner. Here both the results are correct.
 According to K.P. Significator of the 3" house if connected with the 2" (though 12 to 3) and also the significator of the 11" house one will have co-borns.
    - No. brothers
    HINDU
 Sun in Leo in 9;
 Rahu in 3
 Malefic in 2
 Saturn in 3;
 Saturn in 9 or Ketu in 3.
    - Death of brother
    HINDU
1. Lord of 3 in 6 or 8 or 12 or
2. Lords of 8 or 10 or 2 in 3 bring death to brothers while they are young.
3. Benefics in 3 or 6 or 8 or 12 to the 3% house show their death late in life.
Two brothers may be born to a person. The brother who is born with the malefic ruling planet threatening short life will die and that brother, whose ruling planet is a benefic occupying the
House, will live long.
    K.P:-
Consider the Longevity as per the dicta of K. P taking 3° house as Lagna to Youngs.
    - Danger to brother
    HINDU
Count the 3 house from Mars. {f malefics occupy the 37 from Mars, its lord and Mars are weak, it is most undesirable to one's brother. Beneficial planets in 6 shows unhappiness to brothers, but malefic planets in 6 are prosperous to them.
    K.P:
If the sublord of 3 is the Significator of 8 or 10 there is danger.
    - Prosperity to brother
    HINDU
1. Benefics in 8, 9 and 10 (Adhiyoga to him); 2. Mercury, Jupiter and Venus in 3; 3. Jupiter in 9 or in 3; 4. Lord of 3 in a Kendhra with a benefic
    K.P:
If Significator of 4 is also Significator of 12. and 1 brother will be lucky.
    - Brother to become hostile
Lord of 3 in 6 or both the lords in any manner connected with each other or Mars in 6 or 8 or 12 or lord of 1 and lord of 3 in evil aspect, occupying 6 or 8 or 12 to each other; Lord of 9 weak and adversely aspected leads to enmity.
    K.P:
Significator of 1 is also Significator of 3, 6 and 8 they will be enemies.
    - Ever friendly and inseparable
If lord of 9 is in its own sign receiving good aspects of lord of 1, forming good aspect with lord of 3 allows to maintain good relationship.
    K.P. :
If the Significator of 3 is also significator of 11 and 1, there will be harmony.
 When brothers are many, note down the planets which will cause death. When the person runs its dasa and bhukti, that brother or sister born with that planet as his or her ruling planet will pass away.
 Suppose Saturn and Rahu are in 3 and a brother is born with Saturn and Rahu as ruling planets either in Sathabhisha or on a Saturday with Rahu in Lagna or in Saturn's Star Pushya,
 Anuradha or Uthrattadhi conjoined with Rahu. Then he will pass away during the conjoined period and sub period of Saturn and
 Rahu. Another brother born with ruling planets not including
 Rahu and Saturn will live.
    - Partition
 Difficulty about property will be in the conjoined periods of lords of 2, 4, 6, 8 or 12; but partition will take place during the conjoined periods of the significators of the houses of 3, 9, 12 and 4 or 10.
    - Sorrow through brothers
1. If the sublord of 3° cusp is in the constellation of
 Jupiter in 11, or , 2. Mars in 11, aspected by Saturn, or 3. Mars conjoined with or hemmed -in between malefics, it causes worry through brothers and sisters.
    - Acquires brother’s property
1. Lord of 3, strong and posited in the constellation of significator of 2.
 Expenses through brothers and sisters
 Lord of 3, planets in 3, planets in their constellation, in any manner connected with lord of 12 shows expenses through youngsters. He has to shoulder the responsibility.

Mother
 For people born during day time, Sun represents the father and Venus indicates the mother; but for those born during night time Saturn governs the father and Moon rules the mother.
 According to Hindus the 4" house denotes mother; but
 Westerners say that the 10" house represents mother. But if one consider the ruling planets of one’s mother and the significators of 4" house, one will find that they invariably agree; whereas if one finds the significators of the 10" house and judges the ruling planets of one’s mother, it fails. Hence one is to take the 4" house alone as that which indicates mother.
 The longevity, health, finance, etc. are to be judged, taking the 4" house as the Ascendant of the mother and how, each aspect is considered to the native by counting from Lagna, so also it should be done for the mother, from the 4" house.
 The beneficial aspect to the 4'" house and Moon promises her health and longevity whereas evil aspect to them will tell upon her ill health.
 Bhadhakasthana, Kendhradipatya, and Makarasthanas from the 4" house indicate the evil planets affecting her longevity.
 Houses 2, 10 and 11 counted from the 4" house i.e. 5, 1 and 2 counted from the Lagna of the native indicate her possessions
income, pleasure and profit; 6" from the 4" i.e., 9" house shows her disease, debts and difficulty. Thus results to mother are judged taking 4" house as her Lagna. The position of the planets are to be counted from the 4". The dasa, Bhukti, and anthra ever remain the same.
 Mother abandons her child if
(a) Moon in 7 is in trine to Mars and Saturn and is devoid of beneficial aspect from Jupiter. This applies to such children who are left in nursing home or who are taken away from mother and brought up by other relatives.
(b) If Mars and Saturn are conjoined together and if Moon is in 5 or7 or 9 to them.
(c) If Sun is similarly posited.
(d) Moon in Lagna, Mars in 7 and another malefic afflicting
 Moon threatens that mother abandons the child-which dies later.
(©) Moon in the second house and Mars as well as Saturn in 11 offers above results.
(f) If benefics aspect, then good relative as is indicated by the benefic takes away the child from mother; Malefics forming good aspect shows, bad people take away the child.
(g) The mother dies along with the child, if Moon is hemmed in between malefics, occupies 1* or 7" house and 8" house and is not aspected by benefics.
(h) Saturn in cancer is unfavourable to mother’s health and longevity.
(i) Moon, in Leo indicates that one will ever be obedient to his mother.
() Moon conjoined with Mars shows that one will disobey his mother.
(k) Moon in the tenth house indicates gains through mother.
() Saturn in 2, Jupiter in 1 and Rahu in 3, is danger to mother.
(m) Saturn in Taurus, Rahu in Gemini, Venus in Virgo and
 Mars in Leo, is danger to mother.
(n) Saturn in10, aspected by Moon in 4 will prove destructive to mother.
(0) Malefic in 11 and Venus and Moon in 5 shows that the mother will be unhappy.
(Pp) Moon in 4, strong and full, Venus in 7 and Mercury in 10 show that one will have happiness through mother.
(q) One derives the qualities of mother if Moon is stronger than Sun.
(r) Lord of 12 in 2 or 4 shows unhappy mother.
(s) Saturn in 12 is danger to mother.
    - HINDU
(t) The fateful degrees of Moon from Aries to Pisces are as follows: 26, 12, 13, 25, 24, 11, 26, 14, 18, 25,5 and 12. If Moon is in the fateful degree, conjoined with malefics, devoid of beneficial aspect, or if it is in 8 or in a Kendra position, both mother and child will die together.
    - K.P.
 If the 4" Cusp and Moon occupy the constellation of the
 Significators of the 9", 11", or 3° house, and if the sub belongs to Bhadhakasthanadhipati or Marakasthanadhipati, to the 4" house, the mother will be unhealthy and unhappy; she will not live long after the birth of the child. Death of mother and her longevity is to be ascertained taking the 4" cusps as the Lagna of mother and confirm from her chart, if available.

HOUSE TO DWELL IN
 The fourth Bhava (house) in a horoscope signifies the permanent possessions, viz., land, building, or vehicle, the mother as well as one’s education.
 Mahadeva in Jataka Tatwa says that a person will reside in many houses if the 4" house is a movable sign; or if its lord occupies a movable sign or the Karaka Mars is in a movable sign. It means that during the periods and sub periods of the planet in 4 which is a movable sign, one will change his residence; f the 4" sign is fixed, but its lord is in a movable sign, the person vill change his quarters; or during the period of Mars, one has to shange his dwelling, if Mars were to occupy a movable sign; In 3avartha Chintamani, Venkatesa says that movable signs indicate youses in many localities. “Ifthe 4" house, its lord or Mars were to be in a fixed sign, the derson will live permanently in the same house.” The 4° house nay be a fixed sign. So planets in 4" Bhava and in fixed signs, will 1ot allow one to change his quarters. If the lord of the 4" house, which may even be movable, occupies a fixed sign during his deriod, the native cannot shift. If Mars occupies a fixed sign, the
 Jative will remain in the same house during its period.
“If the lord of the 4" house is in a benefic Amsa, he will live dermanently in one building (Chap. Ill, SI.98 to 100.”)
 He says “Find out who owns the first, second and fourth houses? Note how many of them occupy either Kendhra or Kona, (Kendhra means 1, 4, 7, 10,: Kona means 1,5, 9.) Depending on the number of planets, one is to predict the number of good houses resided in and to be resided in by the person.”
 In Jataka Parijata it is said that the acquisition of houses is to be determined from the 4" Bhava.
 He says: If the fiery planets, Sun or Mars, occupy the 4"
 Bhava and be in depression or in enemy's camp, the person will not own a house.”
“If the lord of the 4” Bhavais in the 12" house, the native will live in other's houses in a foreign place.” “If the lord of the 4" house is in 8,” the author says, “there will be no dwelling house owned or tenanted by the native.” “If the lord of the 4" house be in the 6" house, he will lodge in a house owned by uncle, cousin, etc.
 He adds “if the lord of the 4" house is in a Dushsthana (i.e., 6, 8 or 12) or if an evil planet occupies the 4" house, then the house owned by him will be haunted.”
“The lords of 2, 4 and 12 in 12 in 3, 6, 8, or 12 indicate the number of houses to be lost by the native”.
 He encourages by saying that one will be lucky to own as many strong houses in good condition as the number of beneficial planets in the Trikonas and Kendras.
Mahadeva is of opinion that the lord of the 4t house, in combination with the lords of 6 and 8, causes the destruction or loss of the house.
 Varahamihira in brihat Jataka says that people, born with
 Moon in Cancer or in Virgo, will own houses. It does not mean that all those born in Cancer Rasi will build houses and those born with Moon in Virgo will own them. Here one is to note whether Moon was in a favourable sub and constellation. Also one should note the lordship of Moon. Otherwise, in many cases, it will not come true, But those born with Moon in Gemini or
 Virgo, Libra or Scorpio, Pisces or Aries, own good houses. If
 Moon is also strong and benefical, it will give a house to the person during its period.
 Kalidas also has said in Uthrakalamrita, that beneficial Moon and Jupiter will bless one with a house.
 Prithuyasas mentions that a person will acquire a dwelling house during the dasa of a planet, if the dasa commences on the day when Moon transits in Jupiter's sign.
+ One lives in other's houses during the period of Mercury, if it would have been debilitated at the time of birth. Also he says
that persons, born in Meena Navamsa, live in other's houses.
 He is of strong opinion that people born in Meena Navamsa, live in other’s houses and people born in Karthikai Nakshathra will own many houses.
 One can have a strong house, if a benefic occupies the third house and the lord of 4 is also strong.
 The house will have a compound wall if there is a benefic in the 3 house and when the lord of 1 and 4 are both strong.
 Thus, various authors have mentioned about the dwelling houses.
    - According to K.P.
(1) 4" Bhava signifies mother, vehicle, education and building.
(2) Mars is the planet which governs buildings, Moon the mother, Venus the vehicle and Mars as well as Moon, the land.
 Therefore planets connected with the 4" house and Mars will indicate dwelling house. 4" house and Venus indicate conveyance; 4" house and Moon govern mother; 4" house and
 Mercury indicate education.
 So the planet occupying the 4 house or the planet in the constellation of the occupant, having connection with Mars, the lord of the 4" house, if connected with Mars, and planets in the constellation of the 4 house connected with Mars indicate buildings. If these planets are not connected with Mars, but are connected with Venus, one will have vehicle. If they have connection with Moon, the results refer to mother. If Mercury has connection, it indicates education.
(By connection with Mars, it is meant that a planet may) (a) occupy the sign owned by Mars, or (b) occupy the star ruled by it, or
(c) the sub (according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati) governed by Mars, (whatever be the sign and the star.)
 Therefore, if one judges about one’s house to dwell in, one has to consider the planets connected with the +~ house and also Mars:-
(1) The Planets occupying the 4’ house (whatever be the sign) and are either in Mars star or Mars sub.
(2) Planets in the constellation of such occupants, (3) Lord of the 4" house in the constellation or sub of Mars, (4) Planets in the constellation of such lords, (5) And the favourable situation of Mars to the 4" house.
 Acquisition of a house may be by inheritance, legacy or by purchasing one. Hence, if the 4" house receiving good aspects from the lord of 10, the native gets a building by inheritance.
 Here, he does not withdraw money from Bank or borrow, and then buy or build.
 But if the 4" house has connection with the lords of 1 and 12" the native will invest the money he has, and convert liquid cash to a solid permanent possession. The second house indicates bank position, one’s movable property, liquid cash, etc.
 The first house indicates that he makes efforts. Twelfth house shows that he spends and invests.
 But if the 4" house has connection with the lords of 1, 6 and 12, one will borrow and invest or one may acquire a house through co-operative society, etc.
lf the lord of 1 is also the significator of 2 and 6 has no connection with Mars, one borrows money by mortgage.
If the lord of 1. has no connection, but if the lord of 4 and lord of 8 are connected, he will sell away the property. The purchaser is represented by the seventh house; 8" house will be the second house to the purchaser. So he acquires.
{f the lord of 4 is connected with the lord of 12 and also Sun, either he loses the house by fire accident or through public auction; one uses much of wood if the planet which gives the house is connected with Jupiter. Kethu and Mars indicate that one will use well-burnt bricks; Saturn and Venus indicate cement.
 Saturn, Venus and Mars indicate reinforced concrete; Sun, connected with the planet offering the house, shows that the roof may be thatched and grass might have been used; Moon indicates that there will be copious supply of wholesome water;
 Mercury indicates that he may have twin houses or servant quarters, outhouse, etc. Venus and Moon indicate that one will use lime and render it to give the appearance like marble; Mars and Venus indicate mosaic flooring; Venus gives garden, furniture glass, etc. Saturn gives air-conditioning, frigidaire, etc. Mars improves the kitchen; Venus the bedroom; Jupiter the cash- treasury room; Mercury the reading room; Saturn indicates that he may have a locker, an underground room, cellar, etc.
When one lets the house for others, Sun indicates that it will be let to Government department or Government officials; Moon for nurses, midwives, Navy people; those who work in water supply, etc; Mars indicates surgeon, industrialist, police, military, etc.; Mercury shows business people, agents, journalists, post office, etc.; Jupiter for bank, school; Venus for hotels, silk shop, silver shop, for ladies; Saturn for servants, labourers, etc.
That is why, some people build houses and let them out for bank; some let them out for silk and silver shops; some for laundry; some for saloon, etc. This can be clearly seen in the horoscope of the native.
 So also one can find out that the owner of the house where one lives, belongs to one of a particular caste or profession or the quarters belong to Government or local body, etc. by scrutinising the position of the lord of 4, the Dasanatha and
 Bhuktinatha; i.e. the lords who rule the Dasa, Bhukti, Anthra, etc.
 The following horoscope will explain the sale and purchase of house during the different dasa that operated:-
 Mars Dasa Balance 1 year, 9 months 23 days. While this native was running Rahu Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Mars sub period in the first week of July, 1912, the house belonging to his father was sold away.
 He purchased a house on 5-11-1940, when Jupiter Dasa,
 Mars Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra was operating. He sold this house on 8-6-1958 during Sani Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Sani Anthra.
 Again on 4-7-1960 he purchased a building during Sani Dasa,
 Guru Bhukti, Budha Anthra.
     -Explana n for the transactions
(1) Rahu was in the 4" house-Evil planets in the 4" house indicate loss of a house, if one possess already. That is why, during Rahu Dasa, Rahu Bhukti and later in Saturn Dasa, Rahu
 Bhukti he disposed off the houses.
(a) Rahu was in Rahu’s star and Mars sub. That is why, during Rahu Dasa, Rahu Bhukti Mars Anthra, his father sold away the house, when he was young.
(b) Sani is lord of 11 and also 12; therefore, during evil sub period the results indicated by evil house 12 will operate. During the Bhukti of beneficial planets, in Sani Dasa, beneficial results will be enjoyed as lord of 11. If a planet owns both good and bad house, one should not divide a dasa into two halves and then say first half is good, the other half is bad or first half is bad and the other half is good. But the correct method of prediction would be that during the sub of beneficial planets (not according to their nature, but judging whether one is a benefic or not, by considering its occupation and lordship) to declare agreeable results and also in the sub period of planets owning good houses counted from Lagna and occupying favourable houses counted from Lagna and Dasanatha house;
(c) during Sani Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Sani anthra he sold away the house on 8-6-1958 and
(d) during Sani Dasa, Guru Bhukti (in 4" Bhava) Budha Anthra (lord of 4" house) he purchased a beautiful house. During Sani
 Dasa, Guru Bhukti, Mars Anthra he extended the building.
 Future Prediction: In December 1971, he will purchase one more house during Mercury Dasa, Mars Bhukti, Mercury Anthra, sell away one in Mercury Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Sani Anthra and have one more in Jupiter Bhukti, Mercury Anthra.
    - Letter to author
Respected Sir,
 You will recollect that | consulted you last February 1966, regarding “Purchase of a New House”. You gave appointment for only 10 minutes; within the short time, you corrected my horoscope, dasa bhukti calculations etc., and predicted that | will surely purchase a house between 4 and 7 March, 1967.
 You also published the details of the prediction in your Magazine
 April 1966 issue, and also in your Padhdhati, Volume Il, pager
143 to 145 (titled “Purchase of a house”) with my horoscope, without mentioning the name, and also discussed the various
 Points for your making a particular prediction.
 Proper indications came, during November 1966 and | purchased a fine house bearing No. 5 at Mundakanni Amman
 Koil Street, Mylapore, Madras-4 and occupied the same during the period mentioned by you, i.e., by 5 March 1967.
lam highly pleased to write to you this letter as the prediction given by you is found to be quite correct, and | assure you, Sir, that no other Astrologer gave such a correct and accurate prediction mentioning the date etc., nor | think any can give.
 In this circumstances, | would also request you to continuously conduct the lectures on every Sunday at Bharatiya
 Vidya Bhavan at Mylapore to enable more friends to get in touch with you, benefit through your valuable predictions, who: in turn will offer correct prediction to others and be useful to the public.
 On this New Year’s Day, we sincerely pray Lord Uchishta,
 Maha Ganesh to bless you and your family with long life, happiness and prosperity to enable you to continue this great service, you are now doing to the common people like me, and by introducing a new simple method of this “Krishnamurti
 Padhdhati” which is really very useful for us.
Once again; Thanking you, Sir,
 Yours sincerely, = A.V.K. MURTHY
     - PURCHASE OF A HOUSE
 To purchase a house, one has to scrutinise (1) the house (Bhava) 4, as the 4" house indicates permanent possession, land and building, other than Vehicle, etc. The 11 house shows the gains which one can have. The 12" house indicates the cheque to be issued in favour of one who sells the house. Therefore, one has to look to the houses, 4, 11 and 12.
11" house indicates the acquisition. It may be either a movable or an immovable one. Since building or land comes under immovable property, one has to judge both the 4" and 41 houses. Unless we pay, we cannot possess a house.
 Payment is indicated by the 12" house. So, the houses 4, 11 -and 12 are to be judged. °
 While judging the houses, we have to find out which planets occupy these houses and if so, note down the stars governed by these planets. Ascertain which planets occupy the constellation
of the occupants of these houses. Whether there is any planetin such a constellation or not, note down also the occupants.
 Undoubtedly, the planets in their constellations are strong significators:
 So, note down the planets occupying the constellation and also occupying these bhavas. As you have got majority of the planets occupying the houses 11 and 12 and no planet is in the 4" house, we can very well take that those planets which occupy these houses and also which aspect these houses or rule these houses will surely bless you with a house, For people born in
 Capricorn (Makara) lagna, Venus (Sukra) is Rajayogathipathi.
 By Rajayogathipathi, one understands that one can have his desires fulfilled. Saturn who is lord of 1 and 2, can contribute to one’s success and acquisition. Saturn is occupying the
 Constellation Poorvashada which is ruled by Venus (Sukra), who is the Rajayogathipathi and Venus at the time of birth was occupying the constellation Jyeshta ruled by Mercury (Budha), lord of 9. According to me, there will be to some extent such beneficial results similar to Darmakarmathipathiyoga (Lord of 10, occupying the constellation of lord of 9).
 One is to note that unless the 9" or 6" house also operates, itis not possible for one to take possession of the building which one purchases. Why? 6" house is 12" to the 7"; which denotes the person who sells. 9" house is the 12'"to the 10" (which is the 4" to the 7".) In the constellation of lord of 6 and 9, Venus is posited. Therefore, Venus is a strong significator, Lord of the 12” house is Jupiter and it is in exaltation and it is also in the constellation of Mercury which also indicates that the seller will lose his property as Mercury rules the 3% and 12" houses counted from 7* house. What is the 3 house? 3" house is Vyaya to the 4", 4" house indicates permanent possession. Vaya to 4" house would mean to give away land or building. Therefore, planets occupying the stars of the significators of the 3% house are strong enough to indicate. Sukra Dasa, Sun Bhukthi, Guru Anthra will be the period when you will purchase a house and occupy it.
 When a doubt arises whether a particular anthra will give a result
or not, the best thing would be to note down the moment at which the person puts the question. Moon is called Mathi. It indicates the mind. It gives the urge to put a question. Note where Moon is transiting at the time when the native puts the query. To-day, it is 21* February, 1966. Moon is in Aquarius (Kumba) and in Poorvapadrapada Nakshathra. Aquarius (Kumba) is ruled by Saturn and Poorvapadrapada is governed by Jupiter (Guru). Therefore, Saturn and Jupiter must rule the time when it will materialise. Again lagna at which you put the query is Libra (Thulam) and it is owned by Venus (Sukra).
 Therefore, the present moment is Thula lagna and Poorattathi
 Nakshathra. Therefore, Sukra Dasa, Sukra Bhukti, Guru Anthra will be the period when you will have it.
 But, there is another school of thought that when Moon transits in a particular position, the native puts the query and when the. significators transit that particular degree the native will have that ambition realised. Now Moon is around 22 in
 Aquarius. Therefore, on the day when Sun or Sukra is in 22 of
 Aquarius, you will possess the house, i.e., around 5" March 1967.
 He did buy on 4-3-1967.
    - (DISPOSAL OFA HOUSE)
 Kethu Dasa balance 0 year, 9 months, 13 days.
 During Moon Dasa, Saturn Bhukti on 6-2-1960 a new house was built and occupied. When can this building be disposed of?
 Acquisition of a house: Judge the second, fourth and eleventh bhavas.
 Disposal of a house: 3°, 5" and 10" bhavas.
 A building is indicated by the 4" house counted from Lagna.
 Always count from Lagna. Never consider whether Moon sign is strong or Lagnais strong. /n the research after 1967 it was found
that we have to take always the Lagna alone. We should never
 Judge which is stronger whether moon sign or Lagna. The main reason is that ina twin birth, only the cusps of the house including ascendant change whereas Moon is in the same position. What we had been following in K.P. printed in 1966, is to be given up.
 Sun and Rahu are in second bhava. Mars and Venus are in the 4" and Jupiter is in the 11" bhava. Stronger than Sun is Rahu as they are conjoined. Stronger than Jupiter is Ketu as it occupies the sign ruled by Jupiter. Further, Ketu is to give the results of
 Sun as it is aspected by Sun. Mars and Venus show matters connected with buildings as they are in 4" house. Rahu’s stars are Arudhra, Swathi and Sathabisha. Sun alone is in Arudhra.
 Ketu governs Aswini, Makam and Moolam. Moon and Ketu are in Aswini and Moolam. Mars rules Mrigasira trine stars-no planet in any. Venus governs Bharani trine stars-no planet in any of the three stars.
 Venus owns 2"4 house; Moon 4" house and Saturn 11" house. No planet is in any of the three stars of Venus: None in
the three stars of Moon. But in the constellation of Saturn,
 Mercury is in Pushya. Saturn in Anuradha and Jupiter in
 Uthrapathrapada. Hence, Mercury, Saturn and Jupiter are for offering the results indicated by 11" house. Therefore, Moon (in
 Kethu’s star who represents Jupiter, strong in his own sign, occupies 11" bhava and is in the constellation of lord of 11 Saturn)
 Ketu, Saturn, Rahu are the strong significators to acquire own house; to occupy a new premises, etc. Actually, you had anew house built for you during Moon Dasa, Saturn Bhukthi, Rahu
 Anthra on 6-2-1960 - a Saturday ruled by Saturn who is the lord of the sub period bukthi, Rohini star day governed by Moon, whose dasa was running.
 For disposal, study the houses 3, 5 and 10.
 Mercury is in the 3 house; no planet occupies 5 or 10.
 Mercury's stars are Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi. Asilesha is occupied by Mars and Venus.
 Lord of 3 is Mercury; lord of 5 is Sun and lord of 10 is Saturn.
 Mars and Venus are in Mercury’s star; none in Sun’s star;
 Saturn, Mercury and Jupiter are in Saturn’s star. Hence, Mars,
 Mercury, Saturn, Venus and Ketu are strong significators.
 Further, one can judge in the following manner. Saturn as lord of 10 has the effect to cause the sale.
 Moon, representing Ketu (as Moon was in Ketu’s star) in its dasa offered a building, as Ketu denotes 11" bhava results.
 Mars, under the sway of Mercury, as it was in Ashlesha, causes sale of a house in its dasa.
 Hence, in Mars Dasa, Saturn Bukthi, Mercury Anthra, you will enter into an agreement and during Mars Dasa, Saturn Bhukti,
 Venus Anthra you will hand over the possession on a Dhanishta or Anuradha star day. You can receive advance in the beginning of March 1967 and finish the sale deed by June 1967.
 As Marsis in the constellation of lord of 11 during Mars Dasa, there can be no desperate sale, but you will make up satisfactorily.

CONVEYANCE Vahana-Yogam
“Sir, whenever | visited your place and was patiently hearing you, while offering predictions to your clients, you used to mention often ‘Guru-Balam’ (or Vyazha Balam as Kerala people say, or
 Brahaspathi's beneficial strength during transit as North Indians say) has come. Hence one can get married or if one tries for service, he can enter into one; or if one makes attempts in any direction, he will come out successful and all the pending matters will take a favourable turn and materialise. But, how is it that nowadays you never use the phrase ‘Guru Balam’ at all.”
“Yes! Yes” judging from the way things are happening nowadays, | have my own doubt whether Jupiter possesses any beneficial strength at all. It appears that it has lost much of its strength and that Venus is gaining more and more strength.”
 Why? What makes you, Sir, to consider like that?”
“It is not on any single point, | have come to this conclusion.
 In every walk of life, | find a thorough change.”
 Jupiter has become weak:
“Years ago, girls within 12 years of age got married. The
 Parents understood from the astrologers when “Guru Balam” comes for the girls and whether the so-called Guru Balam was there or not, they celebrated the marriages while the girls were young according to their individual luck or fate. They followed the tradition, did the religious rites for four,days, and observed the Vaideek Dharmas and Karmas. Is it not a surprise nowadays
 Dryou to hearthata gids getthg marred ather 14" year of age? Is there any wedding being celebrated for four days, performing Homam etc. Is not late marriage the order of the day. How many do Sandhya - Vanthanam regularly? Tharpanas to the departed souls are not done by many, at all. To do pooja, people do not find time. Temples are not visited by them unless
something happens. Further, where is the respectful regard to the elders now? That is why | feel that Jupiter's strength is waning and marriage to the girls in proper age has become a problem.
 Venus gains strength. True! But how do you say that Venus (Sukra) is gaining more strength? Is not Venus, the Chief
 Governor for matrimony?
 Conjugal Bliss: No doubt, Venus is the Karaka for “Conjugal
 Bliss”; it is also the governor of music, fine arts, Bharatha Natya, conveyance, vehicle, vahanam, wealth, ornaments, ladies, etc.
 Conjugal happiness can be had.
 Music. Consider music (vocal as well as instrumental): in every nook and corner, you hear music. Radios and transistors are plenty. Whether you own or not, you hear music during day and night. Sangeetha Sabhas are springing up everywhere.
 Musical concerts are arranged very frequently. Music Schools and Colleges are being opened. How many Cinema theatres are in existence and how many more are under construction?
 Also, the Touring Cinemas cater to the needs of the hamlets and villages. Bharatha Natyam had practically ceased to exist.
 Nowadays every girl has the desire to learn and earn a name.
 Transport. Let us consider transport. Decades ago, our ancients took years to go round India. There were a few conveyances, and that too, which will move very slowly. But see how quickly they go round the world. Travel on land, seas, and in air are so frequently made that we have vastly improved in transport and travel convenience.
 Venus is for chemicals. Students prefer to study chemistry medicine and chemical engineering.
 Ladies. Venus represents ladies. What an advancement in colleges and schools the admission of ladies is increasing year by year. Ladies enter into service, politics and even take up administration. Ladies have swimming pools. They compete in sports. They drive cars, carts, plane, etc. They have won Noble
 Prizes. There is also a lady cosmonant.
Considering all these - absence of interest in vaidheek ceremonies - Sath Karmas, essential for Para Loka Suka, and more and more indulgence in Iha-Loka- | have to take that the strength of Jupiter is waning whereas that of Venus is waxing.”
“No doubt, what you say is convincing enough; Further, when we enjoy some conveniences for some time, then without them, it is difficult to live. When | was in active service, conveyances were available at a moments call. After my retirement, all the so- called friends avoid me. Now, my son is doing business and he wants to buy a car. What do you say?”
“Have you brought the horoscope of your son?” “| have got both mine and his.” “Come on, let me examine both.”
“Here, Sir, Let me have your considered opinion. Please say who will buy.”
“As you asked me to give ‘considered opinion’ | shall think aloud and finally offer my prediction.
 Vahana-conveyance-is represented by the 4" house counted from one’s Lagna as well as the beneficial effects of Venus. Fourth house, in addition to conveyance, indicates one’s landed
 Property, house property; estate, forest, cattle, mother, education, etc. If the fourth house is strong and has the beneficial aspect from Mars alone, one will buy land, building, etc. Aspect from only Mercury indicates education. Aspect from Moon shows mother. Venus indicates vehicles. Hence beneficial connection to the 4" house does not mean possession of vehicle or purchase of acar, alone. It may indicate the purchase of lands cr buildings also.
 But to state definitely whether one has ‘Vahana Yoga’ or not, the houses 4, 9, 10 and 11 counted from the ascendant as well as the benefical aspect of Venus, Moon or Jupiter should be considered.
“You said that the fourth house represents Vahanam. Why then, should the houses 9, 10 and 11 also be examined.”
“House 9 is called Dharma, 10 is Karma and 11 is Labha.
 Houses 9 and 10 show one’s fortune to enjoy his life in this birth, due to the meritorious deeds done in the previous birth, 9" house is termed as “Poorvapunya Sthanam”. 9" house indicates long journey, whereas 10" house shows pilgrimage.”
“What about the 11" house?”
11 house denotes whether one can have his desires fulfilled.
 To possess a cycle in youth, a scooter in school days - (till a child is born to him or her) and then a car, with radio set, etc., is the desire of almost every one.
 Further, if houses 6, 7 and 8, counted from a Bhava, are not occupied by malefics, but are occupied by benefics, then the matter indicated by the Bhava will thrive.” Therefore 9", 10" and 11® houses show whether they sanction or deny this yoga.
“Venus is said to be the chief governor for conveyance. Why then, should Moon and Jupiter be examined?”
“Venus is the Karaka by nature. Moon owns the 4" sign of the Zodiac indicating change of residence, journey and conveyance. Jupiter owns the 9" house, showing one’s Bagyam, ' long journey, etc., and Jupiter owning the 12" house of the Zodiac indicates investment. By nature, Jupiter shows one’s financial position. All these three planets are natural benefics contributing to pleasant life in this world, hence, they need careful consideration.”
“Alright! Vahanam is a general term. There are various
 Vahanas, viz. Naravahanas like palanquins, rickshaws, etc.
 Miruga Vahanas like carts, jutkas, coaches, tongas, etc; to cross water there are boats and steam launches; instead of using the power of a man or an animal, by using oil, petrol or water; we have scooters, motorcycles, motor cars, motor boats, ships, aeroplanes, helicopters, etc. Is it possible to find out, which vahana one will use?”
To go by palanquin carried by others or a rickshaw pulled by
poor people is indicated when
(a) lord of the 4" house and Venus occupy the Ascendant;
(b) Moon and Saturn are both exalted in the two signs of Venus;
(c) Moon and Venus are in Kona or Kendhra;
(d) Lords of 1 and 4, as well as Venus and Moon conjoin together;
(e) Lord of 4 and Jupiter, Moon and Venus are strong and well posited, Or
(f) Lord of 4 and Jupiter occupy the 9" house.
 Carts, Jutkas, coaches and tongas are indicated when
(a) Lord of 4 is associated with moon occupying the bestial signs;
(6) Jupiter is in 4 and the lords of 4 and 9 are in 11 or (c) Moon and lord of 4 are in the ascendant; or
(d) The 2"¢ and the 4" houses are owned by benefics when Moon associated with a benefic occupies these houses; or
(e) Jupiter, Moon, Venus and the lord of 4 are in Kendhra or Kona;
(f) The lord of 4 associated with Guru-for a beautiful and spacious Vahanam;
(g) The lord of 4 is in a Kendhra and the lord of that
 Kendhrasthana is in the ascendant;
(ft) Or Venus having six Bindhoos or benefic dots in its
 Ashtaka Varga - a beautiful carriage.
 Jupiter or the 9" house, in any manner connected with Saturn
shows travel by camel. If they are connected with moon, travel by elephant or horse or mule is indicated.
If the lord of Lagna is associated with these yogas, or if the yoga-causing planets are associated with Lagna, one will own and use the Vahana.
 Should, however, the lords of 6, 8 or 12 be associated, or the yoga producing planets are in 6, 8 or 12 or if Rahu is in 4, or is conjoined with the lord of 4, one will use “Hired vehicles” or other’s ones.
 If Saturn and the lord of 6 are connected with Vahana-Yoga producing planets, one will be a driver. If Saturn is also the lord of 2, 4 or 11, the native may own and also drive the vehicle.
 What are the yogas for the possession and use of power: propelled machines like motor cycle, car, etc.?”
“Mars indicates machinery and motor; Moon is a watery planet and shows water; Mars is a fiery planet and Moon denotes steam; Saturn stands for Geology and Moon for oil, kerosene;
 Venus is for purification. Therefore Saturn, Moon and Venus indicate petrol. Hence these planets, when associated with the houses 4, 9, 10 or 11 indicate “use of such motor ones”.
 If ney are in human signs, they ’show two-legged vehicles.
 If they are in quadruped signs, they indicate train, etc. Mars and
 Moon stand for steam train; Mars, Mercury or Uranus stand for electric train.
 Use of motor vehicle is indicated when;
(a) Cancer is the ascendant and Mercury and Venus are in 4,7,9,100r 11;
(b) Cancer or Aquarius is the Lagna and Venus is well posited;
(c) The lord of 4 is conjoined with Venus;
(d) The lord of 4 is in the second house conjoined with the lord of 10;
(e) The lord of 11 is in 4, aspected by the lord of Lagna and 10" house;
(f) The lords of 1, 4 and 9 are in Kerldhra; “
(g) The lord of 12 is in exaltation and is associated with lord of 2 and aspected by the lord of 9;
(h) The lords of 10 and rie are in 4; or wien lords of 10, 9 are in 4; ‘
(i) An exalted planet in 10 is aspected by the lord of 9;
(j) Abenefic is in the 8" house, with lords of 4, 9 and 10 in 2, 3 and 4 respectively;
(k) Venus is in 3, 7 or 11 counted from the Moon sign;
i) Jupiter, Venus and the lord of 4 are in a Kona or
 Kendhra or in 11;
(m) Jupiter, Venus and the lord of 9 are in 4 or 9;
(n) Or there is mutual exchange between the lord of 4 and 11; or between 4 and 5, or between 1 and 4, or 5 and 11, or 1 and 10/
(0) Or the lords of 4 and 5 occupy their own signs; (p) Or the lords of 1 and 9 are in Swakshethra; (q) Or the lords of 5 is in 9 and lord of 9 is in 10;
(r) Jupiter is in the 4" Bhava and the lord of 4 with Venus in 9 or 10;
(s) The 4" house has connection with lords of 4 and 9; (t) Lords of 1 and 4 or 9 are in 11;
(u) Mars is lord of 2, in exaltation in, with Mercury, the lord of a Kendhra.
(v) Or Mercury in 11, associated with the lord of the ascendant, promise the purchase and use of a vehicle.
 Venus, Mars and Moon with beneficial strength contributes
for motor car, etc., If they have any connection with Cancer,
 Scorpio, or Pisces they indicate boats, steam launches, ships
etc.: if they have connection with Gemini, Libra or Aquarius, they indicate air travel.
 Even though travel by some eonveyance is indicated, if either the Lagna or lord of the Lagna is not connected with them, one cannot own it. If Rahu has connection, one can hire the vehicle”.
“what are the Yogas indicating that one can have a free gift of Vahanam?” Is there any such yoga, in my son's horoscope?”
“There are a few yogas; one can have the gift of a Car if-
(a) Lords of 1 and 4 are strong and they are posited in 11 aspected by the lords of 9 and 10.
 As an illustration, the following chart is given:-
The balance of Mars Dasa at birth was 1 year 4 months 20 days. He got married in the end of January, 1961 during Jupiter
 Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, and Sun Anthra and obtained a car for his use from his father-in-law;
(b) the lord of 5 is in 9 and lord of 9 in 10, associated with lords of 1 and 4;
(c) the lords of 9 and 10 are in a Kendhra or Kona associated with the lords of 4 aspecting each other; or,
(d) the lords of 4 and 9 are in exaltation or posited in the
 Lagna.
 If Sun and the lord of 6 are connected with them, one can borrow money from the office and own a car, scooter or cycle.
lf Jupiter and the lord of 6 are associated with the Vahana
 Yoga planets, one can have a car on hire purchase.
 If Rahu is associated with Sun or the lord of 2, 10 and the
 Vahana Yoga Planet, one can use the pass issued by the office or use the vehicle of the Department in which he serves.
 If the sublord of 4" cusp is associated with Mars, or significator of 3 and 11 Vahanayogam through brother is promised.
 If Venus is in 4 with the lord of 4 in 7 and if the lords of 4 and 7 are friends, one can have Vahanam through partner, wife or husband. (See example charts give below)
The lords of 4 and 7 posited in 2, possessing benefical strength, also indicate Vahana Yogam through family members.
“Qh! There are so many chances for one to possess a vehicle. | see, will any one of the above combinations do? That is good,
 Now, what abut my chart-any gift-| don’t want free lift”.
“My dear friend, | don not find any such beneficial aspect in your horoscope for a gift”. “That is my luck! Please carefully see whether my son at least will have one”. “Even in your son’s chart, neither a gift, nor the use of the office car, nor the use of the cars of his friends is indicated. What a pity! | am sorry.” “Does not matter. Can he at least borrow money and buy?” “If the lord of 6 and the lord of 4 are in any manner connected, he can raise a loan and buy. Yes, He has that luck”. “When?” “When he runs the conjoined periods of the lords of 4 and 6: in their Dasas, Bhukties and Anthras. Also when they form
beneficial aspects to their original position at time of birth during their transit-Gocharam”.
“May | request you to give the date. | am after all a lay man, whatever you say is ‘Latin’ to me.”
“In 1 year and 2 months he will borrow money and purchase acar”.
“Alright! Let us assume that he purchases. Will it be for good, or will it cause any trouble?”
“Loss through vehicle is indicated when -
(a) the lord of 4 is debilitated, eclipsed or hemmed in between " malefics or occupies enemy's camp,
(b) or, when a malefic owns the 4" house and any other malefic occupies the 4” house,
(c) when the lord of the 4" house occupies the second house and is associated with its enemy or with a debilitated planet or
(d) when a malefic owns the 12" house and has connection with the 4" house, or
(e) amalefic owns the 4th house and occuption the 8" house. “Is there any such evil combination in his map?”
“But What? Why do you hesitate, Don’t hide anything. Tell me plainly whether there is any danger.”
“No danger through vehicles drawn by animals is indicated because,
(a) the lord of 3 and Jupiter are not occupying the Lagna:
(b) Saturn as lord of 6 is not conjoined with either of the nodes Rahu or Ketu;
(c) the lords of | and 6 are not associated with Moon or Venus; and
(a) Rahu conjoined with Sun and Moon is not posited in
 Cancer or Leo ascendant, but-
“What, ‘but’ again?”
“You mean extra expenses, repayment of loan and pressure for money, is it?
“It is not financial trouble. But | expect some danger and consequently some difficulty, For (a) the waning Moon, posited in 4, indicates danger through vehicles. (b) Sun being in 8 and associated with malefics will cause danger, and injury to one’s body, Also,
(1) When Aries, Leo or Aquarius is aspected by Mars and
 Sun or
(2) When Saturn is conjoined with Mars and is connected with Rahu occupying the signs ruled by Venus to those born in
 Gemini or Virgo as ascendant; or
(3) When Sani, Sun and Mars are conjoined together and connected with Venus or the lord of 4, or
(4) When Jupiter, Sun and Mars are conjoined in the evil house, danger to human life by accident should be predicted.
 But (a) if Moon is in Aries, Leo or Aquarius and is aspected by Saturn, Sun and Mars or
(b) if Venus occupies the 8" house and a malefic is in 4, the native will run his car over an animal or
(c) also, if Sun occupies the 10" house and Mars is in 4 or
(d) the lord of 8 occupies the last Drekkana of Gemini
 Mithuna, the driver will be hurt and he will fall down.
“What does my son's chart threaten?”
“There is neither harm to him, nor to any other human life.
 But he will knock down an animal and then knock down a person.
 He will stop at once. Anyhow, he will have some difficulty and also monetary loss as he will have to pay some money to the owner of the animal or to the parents of the child.
There will be trouble through the traffic department and later through Law and Order (a) if the lord of 10 is associated with a malefic or occupies the navamsa sign owned by a malefic in the 4" house or (b) if Sun, Venus and Rahu occupy 12" Bhava or () if the lord of 4 and Saturn are in'12, or (d) the lords of 1, 4 and 8 are conjoined together in 6 or 12,
“Is it possible for you to find out when this will happen”
 This will happen (a) “according to Kalachakra dasa, when there is “Simhavalokana” or “Lion’s Jump” or
(b) when the dasa and Bhukti of malefics (by lordship and not by nature) if either debilitated or eclipsed operate or
(c) during the Dasa and Bhukti of the planets in 6, 8 or 12
(d) during the conjoined periods of the planets causing this evil yoga.
“Can this not be prevented by proper propitiation, in time.”
“No. Not at all. Evils threatened by the malefics are bound to happen. They cannot be averted, dodged or prevented by doing Shanthi or by one’s will or trying to sit at home.
 Let two instances be quoted here. When a gentleman was warned, he asked the editor to mention a number which will be fortunate for him, so that he can avoid any accident. The astrologer said ‘6’. So he had the car number as ‘6’. On the eventful day, (which he knew) he had a fancy for his friend’s new car and drove it. Alas! At the time already predicted he dashed against a person, and he had to face the consequences.
 In another case, an injury was predicted to a doctor, years ago. He remembered the date as 19" December. So he granted leave to his assistants-did not go to the dispensary-took seat in his easy chair at home and was reading a medical bulletin. At that time, his youngest child crawled and went in between the four legs of his cow. By chance the doctor noticed it. He did not shout. But he got up suddenly, slipped, fell down and broke his arm on 19" December.
Hence, evil indicated by malefics will surely happen. No doubt the physician is a God-fearing gentleman. He is liberal- ‘minded. He treats the poor free. He does Pooja, etc. Look at this.
“Alright: Nowadays it is not easy to get a car, especially in this locality. Can you guide me from where he can have it, please?”
“Generally the direction from where one can get the car is indicated by the lord of the Bhukti in Vimshothari dasa.
 Also it will be the direction indicated by the rasi containing the largest number of beneficial dots in Jupiter’s ashtakavarga.
 From your son’s horoscope | can say that
(1) he will borrow money; after 1 year and 2 months and (2) will buy a car, from a place north of your residence and (8) will enjoy his life, (giving you lift occasionally);
(4) except on one occasion when he gets into trouble by dashing against an animal and a boy”.
 The sublord of the 4" Cusp shows whether one can have vehicle in his life time or not. If the Sublord is in the constellation of a planet who is significator of 4, and is connected with Venus
one must have.

 EDUCATION
 Significator of the 4" house indicates one’s regular attendance to a school or a college and study year after year.
 Significator of the third house shows one’s inclination to specialise any subject or desire to read that subject as is indicated by the 3" house.
 Significator of the 9" house gives taste and chances to study further.
3" and the 5" house show one’s native intelligence; but that of the 4" indicates studious habit and industry.
 Sun conjunction with Mercury or in the Constellation or sub of Mercury causes Nipuna Yoga. But it does not mean that he is to qualify himself with some degree, so also people having no
 Nipuna Yoga can be double-degree holders. Further, a few are under wrong impression that Mercury when in rapt conjunction or when eclipsed cannot give education. Actually Chief
 Engineers, Auditor generals, greatest mathematicians, wranglers, intelligent Income Tax Officials are having Mercury in rapt conjunction or eclipsed or retrograde.
 One is to consider the sublord of the ascendant to find out whether one will be studious or lazy: Mercury and Jupiter give the mind to study and offer facilities, Saturn as a Significator of 3, throws obstacles while one studies and during examination time, one arrives late to the hall and remembers many points only after handing over the answer paper and leaving the hall.
 To find out in which subject one will be proficient, one has to judge the 2", 3°, 4", 9 and 10" houses.
    1. Astrology
 Mercury, Being the Significator of angular houses, Venus as significator of 5 or 9 or 2 and lord of 2 strongly connected with
 Mercury or Venus. For further combination refer page 53 of Vol. 1.
    2. Mathematics
 Hind.- (a) Saturn in 8; Jupiter in Ascendant; Mercury and lord of 2 conjoined in an angle;
(b) lord of 2 conjoined with Mercury; Venus in exaltation and
 Jupiter in a Kona or Kendhra;
(c) Sun and Mercury in 2 aspected by Saturn-Statistics;
(d) Sun in Virgo-Mathematics, Engineering, Draftsman,
 Drawing;
(e) Mercury ruling the navamsa sign occupied by lord of 10 — Correspondence and Mathematics;
(f) !f Ketu and Jupiter are in 2 or 3 or 5, to the Navamsa sign occupied by the Atmarkaraka;
(g) Mars in 2 receiving beneficial aspect; (h) Moon conjoined with Mars and aspected by Mercury; (i) Jupiter in Lagna, Saturn in 8 and Mercury lord of 8.
 K.P. -
 Mercury must be strong to be good in mathematics, and be the Significator of 2 or 4 or 9.
    3. Law and Logic
 Wemyss opines as follows: Airy signs give intellect and imagination. One will seriously contemplate, plan and scheme, well in advance, during the periods of the planets in Cancer or
 Capricorn. One is a great critic, if Gemini or Sagittarius is occupied by the significator at 11° to 12° Methodical approach, cogency and coherence if occupied at 15° of Aries or Libra.
 K.P. -
 Jupiter gives knowledge in Law: Mercury offers eloquency and fluency: Mars stands for analysis, assertion, logic quick wit, argumentative faculty, penetration and authoratative speech.
 Sublord of the Cusps of 4 and 9 indicate Mars, Mercury sub gives audacity; Mars in Jupiter sub shows that without much of legal knowledge, by commonsense and threatening the opponent, one becomes a successful cross examiner eliciting the truth and getting favourable points. | know two criminal lawyers who do not possess much of legal knowledge, but by such action, they always appear in rape cases and even save their clients.
    4. Engineering
One is to be good in mathematics, drawing and planning.
 Mars and Mercury produce Engineering students having taste in
 Mechanical, or Civil Engineering including construction of building, erection of machinery, factory Structural and
 Architectural Engineering. .
 Venus and Mercury show Sanitary Engineering or chemical
 Engineering or Electrical Engineering or Automobile Engineering.
 Sun and Mercury indicate Chemical Engineering; Drugs;
 Pharmaceuticals manufacturing industry; Moon and Mercury-
 Textile Engineering; Moon, Mars and Mercury-Marine
 Engineering; Moon, Sun and Mercury-Mechanical Engineering;
 Moon, Saturn and Mercury-Mine Engineering; Mars, Jupiter and
 Mercury Press, Mechanical Engineering, Machines, Tools, spare parts; Uranus and Mercury-research, atomic energy; Neptune and Mercury-Marine Engineering or Chemical Engineering; manufacturing poison; Moon, Saturn and Mars-excavation, mine or trenches, construction of dam or bridge etc.
 Thus depending on the connection which Mercury has, one is to ascertain, in which branch, he will specialise, Mercury, or the planets occupying the two signs of Mercury or the 3 stars (Ashlesha, Jyesta, Revati) produce Engineering Students.
    5. Medicine
 Sun is called “Dhanvanthri, “Sign ‘Virgo’ is said as the hospital of the Zodiac.
 Scorpio indicates medicine, chemicals and mortuary. Pisces shows isolation hospital, Sanatorium, Asylum etc. Leo indicates medicine.
 Airy signs and Scorpio occupied by significators give fertile imagination, proper intuition and prompt action. Sun or Mercury in Scorpio receiving harmonious aspect from Uranus gives mind to do research. (Western)
    6. Philosophy
 KP.
(a) Sun and Mercury as significator of 5, connected with
 Saturn.
(b) Jupiter and Saturn as Significator of 4" or 9" house .
 Hindu.
(c) Mercury exalted in 2, Saturn in Gopuramsa; Jupiter in
 Simhasanamsa, or
(d) Saturn in paravatamsa, Jupiter receiving aspect from
 Mercury.
(e) Or Jupiter in trine or angle (f) Venus in Lagna in Utamamsa
(g) Or Venus in an angle in Utamamsa and Moon in
 Devalocamsa
(h) Lord of 1 in 2 and lord of 2 in Paravatamsa etc.
    7. Music
5" house shows music: 2" house is for vocal and the 3” for instrumental. 3 and 12 indicate such instruments where both the legs and hands are to operate. Neptune indicates stringed instruments. Venus gives the taste for music. Moon and Venus for imagination and Alapana. Venus adds melody, Mercury denotes rhythm, thalam, gives courage and confidence and one will be free from stage-fear. Mars, Saturn and Venus gives taste in Tabla, Mridangam etc. where the dead skin is used. Airy sign and short ascension denote flute. Airy sign and long ascension indicate Nathaswaram. Earthy sign connected with Mercury-(dual planet-plurality) shows Mridangam. Unconnected with Mercury denotes Tabla. Neptune and Venus connected with airy or earthy sign or planets in airy sign and in long ascension show Veena.
 Short ascension indicates violin. Watery sign denotes
 Jalatarangam. Voice signs or signs ruled by Venus being the 2" house or Venus in 2 makes one a vocal musician — Sun in
 Sagittarius gives taste for music.
    8. Journalism
 Jupiter and Mercury give taste for journalism. Moon also contributes. One can narrate in detail if they occupy or if they receive aspect from the planets in Virgo or Pisces. If the third and the 9" houses are signified by these three planets, one will take journalism.
    9. Auditing-Accounts
Mercury and Moon are favourable for mathematics, accounts, inspection of accounts etc. Airy signs and Virgo are the favourable signs to learn accounts.
    10. Geology.
Saturn and planets occupying either Capricorn, the earthy sign belonging to Saturn, or in the sub of Saturn gives taste to
    11. Geography
 Sun, planets in Sun’s star and Sun's sub show that one will be interested in Geography.
    12. Chemistry
 Venus, planets in the star and sub of Venus and Sun give taste of Chemistry.
    13. Physics
 Mercury and Venus show physics. Planets in their constellation or sub also make one proficient in Physics.
    14. History
 Moon, Mercury and Jupiter indicate History.
 Education is Successful if the lord of 4 and lord of 9 are in the Sub of sifnificator of 11. Planets in any manner connected with lords of 4 and 11 give education. Even if one discontinues one's study, yet if planets receiving good aspect from the lords of 4 and 9 or lords of 4 and 9,receiving good aspect from planets in the constellation of the occupant in 11, or the occupant in 11 or lord of 11 give further education, after a break.
 Education ends during the periods and subperiods of the planets in the constellation of the occupant of the houses 3 or 5
or 8 or the occupants of the houses 3 or 5 or 8 or the planets in the constellation of the lords of 3 or 5 or 8 or the lords of the houses 3 or 5 or 8. Malefic Saturn is detrimental. Rahu does not prove to be bad. It gives education when itis in the constellationof the planets connected with the houses 4 and 9.
    - Competive examination
 Mars, Mercury and Jupiter promise success if they are connected with 4, 9 and 11.
    - Scholarship for study
 The fourth house indicates whether one will study at all. The ascendant or the Lagna denotes the person. The 8th house represents the school where he may study. The 7""th house shows the teacher.
 The houses 8 and 12 connected with the 4th house and vice versa indicate that one will pay the fees, etc. and study. But the 4th having connection with the 6th and the 11th houses indicate scholarship.
 The 7® house will indicate the person to whom or the institutions to which you have to pay or the person from whom or the institution from which you have to receive.
 Scholarship is a non-repayable loan. Generally the 6" house is judged for a loan. Why? As the seventh house represents one who lends money to you, the vyaya house, the 12" to the 7" shows that he has to lose or he has to withdraw that amount which he gives as loan and there will be a deterioration in his bank position to that extent to which he issues the cheque. But it is an income to the native. His bank position or the money on hand increases by that amount which he takes as a loan.
 Similarly, the institution is entitled to take money from the students. But if one is given a scholarship, it means the institution loses through that student and pays the fees for him. Rather, the institution gives that amount to the student as a loan which need not be returned at all.
 Hence the 4" house should be connected with the 6" house, i.e., the planet in 4 may be in the constellation of the occupant in the 6" house or the lord of the sixth house.
11" house indicates benefit, profit, gains, etc. Since, scholarship is a non-refundable one, it is a profit and the house of education will have connection with the 11" house. 8" house occupied by benefics indicates that the native wilt pay and study as the benefic is in the second house to the seventh. 12 house shows expenses. So the native is to spend and study. If the 4'" house, Jupiter and Mercury are connected with 12th house he pays the fees and studies. But if the 12" house, is connected with Venus or the lord of 3, he pays, for his conveyance, though he may enjoy scholarship. If the 12" house is connected with Mars and 3" house, he may shift to a hostel, pay for boarding and lodging but will receive scholarship.
 Let us take the horoscope of a native who is given scholarship and who is now studying in America.
 The person was born on a Tuesday ruled by Mars, in Scorpio ascendant, ruled by Mars, in Aries Rasi (where Moon was at the time of birth) owned by Mars on 28" March 1933 at 10-23 p.m.
 At the time of birth, Balance of Venus Dasa was 19 years and 3 days.
Till he completed M.B.B.S. and then M.D. he had been payirig and studying at school and college. But during Moon dasa Saturn
 Bhukti he got the scholarship and went overseas for study.
 Why should he get a benefit then and go overseas?
 Moon, the lord of 9, indicating long journey and higher studies was in the constellation of Venus owning the 12" house. Soa long journey and life in a foreign place for further study are indicated by Moon.
 Saturn owns the 4" house. It has to give a regular course of study. Itis in the 3° house: so a thorough change in surroundings and environment is indicated. It aspects the 9" house and the 12" house. Hence it influences these houses and matters signified by these houses are enjuyed. |.e., a long journey and life in a foreign place.
 The above reasons explain his further study in foreign place.
 Why should he get a scholarship?
 Saturn which is the ruler of the 4" house indicates his study.
 It is in the constellation of Moon which was in the sixth cusp in his horoscope. When the 7" house indicates school and the 6" shows expense to them or scholarship to the student. Moon gives scholarship to him , at a time when the planet in the constellation of Moon operates. Actually he received the order during Moon Dasa, Saturn Bhukti on a Pushyam star day ruled by Saturn in the Cancer (the Moon's sign and left India on a
 Sravanam star day (governed by Moon in Saturn’s sign
 Capricorn) at the time Moon just passed the position of Saturn.
 Similarly, the research students of astrology may collect the horoscope of the students who are given scholarship and find out in which Dasa and Bhukti he was first offered the scholarship and judge how the Dasanatha and Bhuk’inatha are connected with the houses 4 and 6 or 4, 6, and 11.
 The following is the horoscope of the Editor of this book who received Scholarship while he was studying in the St.
 Joseph's College, Trichy:
 The balance of Moon dasa is 8 years and 2 months. The scholarship was awarded during Rahu Dasa, Rahu Bhukti, Mars
 Anthra in August, 1926, and Rahu was in the star of Mars, lord of 4 and 11 and it represents Mercury, the lord of 6 and 9 by occupying Gemini.

(FARM AND FUTURE )
 Mars, Venus, Moon and Jupiter are the planets which indicate that one will take up “Farming” if. they are in any manner connected with houses 2, 6 and 10.
 Mars denotes “Land”. He is called Bhoomikaraka: Venus and Mars shows the action to produce, Moon shows irrigation.
 Jupiter indicates progeny or production and produce.
 Hence one takes up farming, if one enjoys the conjoined period of Venus, Mars, Moon and Jupiter.
 Kethu Dasa 6 years, 2 months and 13 days.
 Second house extends from 29° 34’ Aquarius and 4°34’ Aries.
 Moon and Jupiter are in the second house. No planetis in Moon’s star. Mercury and Jupiter are in Jupiter's star.
6" house is vacant. It is owned by Mercury. In its star Sani,
 Sun and Kethu are deposited.
10" house is occupied by Mars, Saturn, Sun and Kethu.
 Majority of the planets are connected with farming. Rahu represents Venus who is in Mars star. Rahu is also in Mars star.
 Mars is in Saturn star.
 Ketu represents Mars and Moon is in Ketu star. Hence all planets are connected with farming.
 Of these, which are favourable? Those planets which are deposited in such a sub which is ruled by Mars or Venus or Moon or Jupiter.
Sun, Moon and Venus are in Moon’s sub. Jupiter is in Mar’s sub. Rahu and Ketu are in Jupiter sub. Mars, which is in Saturn star and Saturn sub denotes that during Mars sub period, one will purchase plot, acquire and use it for one’s business as Saturn is lord of 2, deposited in 10 in the constellation of lord of 6. Therefore, this gentleman has purchased the plot of land for farming on 6"
 July, 1968. At that time, he was running Moon Dasa, Venus Bhukti,
 Mars Anthra, and Saturn Sookshma. Mars and Saturn, as already said, are the two planets, which are connected with 2, 4 and 11, indicate purchase of property. Second house shows acquisition, 4" house indicates land and the 11" house shows possession and gains. Since Mars and Saturn are connected with 2, 4 and 11, he purchased in that conjoined period. The day was Saturday and
 Moon was transiting in Venus sign, Jupiter star, and Venus the
 Bhuktinatha was transiting in Jupiter star Punarvasu. Thus according to the method advocated by Krishnamurti Padhdhati, it is found that these agree. Thereby it is a confirmation that the horoscope erected according to the timing given by parents is correct.
 As regards the future of any profession, one is to know whether the periods (according to Vimshottari Dasa) ruled by the planets have any connection whatsoever with that nature of profession, which has been started. If the following dasa lord has no connection, then that particular nature of profession will come to an end and according to the nature of the dasa lord, there will be a change in the profession. Now the Mars Dasa follows with that of Moon and
 Mars is in Saturn star, Saturn sub. Therefore, more and more acquisition of land, expansion of business, etc. are shown. Then follows Rahu Dasa, who is deposited in Mars star and Jupiter sub.
 Students should note that any planet, which is deposited in
 Saturn sub, no doubt, gives advantageous results, if he is a benefic; but yet one will not be satisfied with the net profit; But if Jupiter happens to be the sub lord, there will be the providential help so that the yield from the field will be satisfactory and also the price will be such as to bring larger profits. Therefore, | predict that during the remaining period of Moon Dasa, in which the cultivation will be going on and the farm will come up without any difficulty for watering,
etc., as the Sun Bhukti alone is left out, which is also in Venus sub.
 During Mars Dasa as Mars is in the sub of Saturn, the growth will not be as satisfactory as it was, in Moon Dasa, yet since it is lord of 10 and 11 and alsoin the constellation of the planetin the 10" bhava, there will be progress; Saturn in Scorpio sign (watery, fruitful sign) in Anuradha star (Anuradha indicates fertiliser, chemical, etc.) show that he will make use of chemical fertiliser to have greater yield from the field, but not to the extent to which one expects. The best sub periods in Mars Dasa would be Jupiter Bhukti, Mercury Bhukti and
 Bukties of the luminaries Sun and Moon. During Rahu Dasa, as itis in Mars constellation and in the sub of Jupiter there will be bumper crop and most satisfactory results promising increases in income, satisfactory bank position, expansion of business etc.

SHALL | OWN A CINEMA THEATRE? IF SO,WHEN?
 The horoscope is as follows:-
 Ketu Dasa balance 6 years 10 months 25 days.
 To own any building, one is to note the house 4, 11 and 12.
 Fourth house denotes permanent possession 12"; indicates issue of acheque; 11" indicates the gains. Itis the sub lord of the 4" cusp, by the nature, denotes the purpose for which the building will be used.
 Fourth cusp sub lord is Venus as it is in 15° 25’ in Gemini. 12" house is occupied by Venus and Sani. Venus denotes Music, opera, Ciname. Saturn is lord of 11 and 12. No planetis in Saturn star, Saturn is very strong to give 11" and 12" house results.
 No planetis in the 4" house. Lord of the sign wherein the 4" cusp falls is Mercury. Moon is in Ketu star Ketu sub, Moon is connected with 5" house as it is lord of sign wherein the 5" cusp falls, and no planet is in Moon's constellation. Fifth house and
 Venus indicate Cinema. Hence Moon Dasa Saturn Bhukti Venus
 Anthra will be the time of having one Cinema theatre around the end of January 1974 and beginning of February 1974 when Sun will transit in the constellation of Moon and sign of Saturn.

WHEN CAN | CLEAR OFF LOAN?
“An agreement was signed with the contractor on 14-10-67 requesting him to construct a building for my use at a cost of Rs. 50,000.
| paid Rs. 6,600 on 29-6-61, secondly on 14-10-68; Rs. 10,000, thirdly on 21-12-68 Rs. 7,000. The balance is to be paid. Source and date of repayment, God alone knows” says one student.
“Why do you say that God alone knows. Cannot our Guruji tell you when and how you will repay and regain peace.”
“Yes. He can help us by prediction.”
“Then what do you expect from ani astrologer. One classmate may consult about when he will get married. Since he is depressed and dejected as he remains unmarried and he had his 37" birthday, only yesterday. Will the astrologer relieve his worry or satisfy him
by giving any of his aged daughters in marriage to him? Or if |go and say that there is pressure for money etc, which you are aware of, will he issue a cheque and help me? If our room mate requests him to find out when he can get accommodation, will he make a search for him. Astrologer can give only this much relief. That is he can remove the worry. How? He will predict when the matter wiii materialise. “Alright let us meet him.
 Both enter.
 Yes: come in, come on; Why do you hesitate?” “Sir, we have not taken an appointment, but we have taken a chance”. “What for?”
 The worried person narrates the cause of his worry and asks “when can | be free from these, by paying the Balance?” “Have you brought your horoscope?” “Yes, Sir here it is. | have worked out as per your method.’
 Horoscope is as under:
Venus Dasa balance 15 years, 9 months 27 days.
 It is verified. An intelligent student, without a single mistake
has calculated and erected the map according to Krishnamurti
 Padhdhati.
“The chart is perfectly alright. Give me few minutes”
 Two minutes passed. | made all calculations and | wrote the
dates of repaying in a slip of paper.
I asked him “What is the time, now?” “40-20 A M. Sir.” “What is the lagna?” “Let me refer to Tables of Houses and tell you, Sir”. “Yes, Tables of Houses furnishes correct information. There the ready reckoner. Please refer.” “Mesha started at 9-38 A.M. Sir. So it is Mesha.” “Who is the owner of Mesha?” “Mars Sir” “What is your day of birth?” “Tuesday” “Who governs Tuesday?” “Mars” “Next, where is Moon now?” “In Taurus” “Who is its Lord?” “Venus” “What is your birth star?” “Poorvashada” “Who rules Poorvashada?” “Venus Sir” “You are the third person visiting now.” “Do you see that your lord of lagna is Mars, lord of your star
 Venus” “Yes Sir.” “What did I teach you in the class?”
“You said that one can consult an astrologer only at such a time so that the ruling planet at that moment agrees with the ruling planets at his or er birth moment.” “Are you satisfied with the correctness of your chart?” “Yes Sir.” “Now, let me tell you, the next date of repayment will be 15- 3-69”. “How did you arrive at it in 2 minutes, Sir.”
 If | explain, it will take 15 minutes. Anyhow let me oblige, you both.
 What do you mean by an agreement with contractor. Does it not mean that you and another person sign a document wherein both agree. So which houses are we to judge. 3% house counted from your lagna and 3” counted from 7" i.e. houses 3 and 9 in your chart.
3" house is vacant: Owner is Mercury. ‘It has no planet in its stars Ashlesha, Jyeshta or Revathi. So Mercury is one of the significators.
 Jupiter, Moon and Mercury are in the 9" house: Mercury, we have judged. Venus alone is in Moon’s star. Saturn is in Jupiter's star. So Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Moon, Jupiter are the significators. Indude Rahu and Kethu also as it represents Jupiter & Mercury respectively.
 What was the period running at the time of signirig the contract? Moon Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Saturn Anthra, Venus
 Shookshma. The day was a Saturday. The star was Saturn star.
 The time of signing the contract was Makara sign, Moon star.
 Next you paid first installment. Houses 8 and 12 indicate the repayment, just like 2 and 6 when judged together, denote borrowing.
 You repaid during the Moon Dasa, Sun Bhukti, Saturn Anthra on a Saturday when Moon was in Cancer owned by itself.
 Next payment was made during Mars Dasa, Mars Bhukti,
 Mars Anthra, Rahu Shookshma on a Monday in Rahu constellation in Mercury sign.
The third was paid on 21-12-1968 during Mars Dasa, Mars
 Bhukti, Saturn Anthra on a Saturday when Moon was in Makara ruled by Saturn.
“How is it, Sir, that Saturn gives me money and also makes me part with it?”
 In your chart, Saturn owns both 11" and 12" houses: No planet is in 12; Saturn alone is in 11. No planet is in Saturn star.
 Hence Saturn gives, due to 11" house and repays due to 12" house result. So, on the days governed by Saturn, you get cheques and also, you issue cheques. :
“Can | pay in full?” “No.”
“Whenever Saturn rules, all payments will be made only in installments.”
“Why, Sir.”
 If Saturn indicates disease, Saturn gives a chronic one.
 If we get or give, Saturn prolongs the period by way of installment. It is a delaying planet to fulfil one's desire whereas it is not denying nor disappointing one.
 When will | clear off the loan? “Mars Dasa Rahu Bhukti Sun Anthra — January 1970.” “Will he give me time to that extent?”
 Whether he gives or not, you clear off only when the conjoined period of planets, deposited in the constellation of planet in 8 operates; Judge the house. “Thanks, Sir.”
 Both go smilingly and with the hope that he can repay and clear off in January, 1970 and with a decision to take time from the contractor.
“Is your worry over?” asks the classmate, while they are putting on shoes sitting in the outside verandah
“What doubt is there? He deals with the subject so quickly, explains it in meticulous detail so lucidly and encourages with his convincing arguments so confidently”. So saying they go on and | can’t hear any more that they talk.

DISEASE
 Various books written by western authors are referred, especially, “The message of the stars” written by Max Heindel and Augusta Foss Heindel, published by L N Fowler & Co, Lilly’s
 Astrology Zadkiel, Sepahriel, Llewlyn George, Alan Leo, etc. How the information collected there in, is to be made use of while applying Krishnamurti Padhdhati is given below:
 He says
“Never tell a patient a discouraging fact
 Never tell him when impending crisis are due
 Never predict sickness at a certain time
 Never, never predict death”
 He adds that it is a grave mistake, almost a crime to tell sick persons anything discouraging, for it robs them of strength that should be husbanded with, the utmost care to facilitate recovery.
 He is of opinion that it is a well-known fact that many students of the medical colleges, feel the symptoms of every disease they study and suffer greatly in consequence of auto-suggestion, but the ideas of impending disease implanted by one in whom the victim has faith is much more dangerous. Therefore it behooves of the medical astrologer to be very cautious. If you cannot say any thing encouraging, be silent.
 Planets: Which part of the body and disease do they indicate?
 Sun: Governs the vital fluid in the body, the heart, the pons varolii, etc. Radiant health is given by Sun.
 Moon: Rules the stomach, the uterus, the ovaris, the lymphatics, the sympathetic nervous system, the synovial fluid.
It indicates whether one can have menstrual troubles, uterine and ovarian afflictions, dyspepsia, eye trouble, lunacy, and diseases connected with breast.
 Mars: governs the red bone - marrow, haemoglobin, red blood corpuscles which carry food to various parts of the body and help in throwing out the waste. It also governs the genitals.
 Accidents, burns, gunshot injuries, surgery, are shown by Mars.
 Mercury: Pulmonary system, respiratory diseases, motor segment of the spinal cord, vocal cord, locomotor functions, ataxia, nervous disorders, deafness.
 Jupiter: Liver, glycogen, adrenals, arterial circulation, fatty degeneration of the muscles, tumours, cancer, morbid growths, enlargement of organs, waste of sugar, albumin in the urine, blood poisoning, apoplexy.
 Venus: Throat, kidneys, lack of exercise, sedentary habits poor circulation of blood, tonsillitis, venereal diseases.
 Saturn: Obstrution, atrophy, gall bladder, bones, painful rheumatism, teeth, mottled enamel, fluoride intoxication, stiff bone, dullness in the peristaltic action thereby poor digestion bruises, colds, chronic diseases, fear complex, never believes that he will be cured. Always pessimistic, fracture.
 Thus wnat each planet denotes is given. So, one is to note which planet will cause the disease, in which sign it is, and in which sign the lord of the constellation of the planet, which is the significator of both the first and the sixth houses is. Considering all these, one has to come to a decision ard then predict the nature of the disease from which one will suffer; then calculating the period when the significators of one and six operate, one is to give the time when one will fall ill. Similarly one has to note down when the eleventh house significators will operate. If the 11" house significator is also the significator of the fifth house, one will surely have the cure for the disease from which one suffers. Unless the sub sub period of the significator of the 11" house operates, following the period of the disease, immediate
cure is denied, and one is to wait till the significator of the 5" and 11™ begin to operate.
 Nature of the diseases: The ascendant and the significators of the ascendant will indicate whether one can maintain good health or suffer from any disease or will have rapid or slow recovery from the ailment or succumb to it.
 The sixth house denotes the upset of the health, the disease from which one will suffer, its nature and duration of the disease.
 It is not necessary that one should suffer from any one variety of the disease in his lifetime whenever he falls ill. The nature changes according to the significator of the disease and the period running.
 Normally there will be a few significators of the sixth house. All cannot cause diseases unless the same significator of the sixth house is also significator of the first house. 6" house indicates not only disease but also debts, difficulties, separation from the partner, etc. Hence to definitely predict that one will suffer from some disease, one should note whether the significator of sixth house is also connected with the ascendant. If it is connected with the second and not the first, then it indicates either entering into service or borrowing money. Ifit is connected with the second and also the 12", it shows that he would have lost what he borrowed or repaid the loan already taken, etc. But if the significator of the sixth house is also the significator of 1 and also 12 one will be confined to bed or isolated, i.e. hospitalised
 The fatal disease is shown by the significator of the 8" house.
 One may suffer from various diseases during his life time. But that which would be the last disease from which one suffer, is indicated by the sub-lord of the 8" cusp. Twins may be born.
 The lagna and also the 8" cusp may be in the same sign and star for both of them. But the nature of the death differs. How? Which can explain the reason for this, except the sub-lord of the 8?
 One of them meet with accident. The other passes away on another date after suffering from some other disease. The only method by which one can decide is only by judging the sub-lord of the 8" cusp as the cusps alone change within the few minutes
interval in their birth time. Therefore one should note the nature of the diseases as explained below.
 Note the sub-lord of the 6" cusp. This need correct moment of birth. {fit is not available, then if you want to know the sub of the sixth, you take the ruling planets at the moment when you have the urge to put the query. Mysteriously God will help you by eliminating the previous and the next sub to the one which you have to select.
 Now a gentleman has entered my room in Delhi. His question is whether there will be any relief from the disease from which he is suffering. To day it is Saturday. The constellation in which
 Moon is transiting is Poorvashada, governed by Venus in the sign Sagittarius, owned by Jupiter. This shows that the body gets emaciated due to passing away off sugar in the urine. Hence | decided that it should be diabetes. When | asked the gentlemen whether he suffers from diabetes, he said ‘yes’. His horoscope also indicated the same disease. It is as follows:
Now let us see the 6" cusp of the native. It is in Venus sign,
 Moon star and Venus sub. Combination of Venus, Moon is judged for profession as one who deals in milk, petrol or syrup. Hence for disease we have to take that he passes not urine but syrup- like fluid. It should be clearly stated as diabetes as Moon is connected with the 8" house by owning it and 8" house shows micturition-passing urine. If | want to note the sub from the ruling planets it can be seen that it may be Jupiter or Saturn or
 Venus sub as today it is Saturday and the star is Poorvashada.
 The lord of the star is stronger than the lord of the rasi which is stronger than the lord of the day. Therefore the divine grace is ever there to fix correctly that which you want by taking the ruling planets at the moment of judgment. Therefore whenever you want to find out the disease of a person, note the sub-lord of the sixth cusp; find out in whose consteliation it is deposited. Find out the sign where the lord of the star was at the moment of birth
 Or at the time of query and also the sub-lord of the sixth both put together to give the clue.
 In the above horoscope the sub-lord is Venus. Itis in Scorpio, the 8" sign of the zodiac and in a watery sign indicating sexual organ and excretion from the body. Venus was in the constellation of Jupiter in Libra. Libra is for kidney, bladder etc. How clear it is, is to be judged by the readers themselves. The native of this chart found out that he had unusual thirst in the night and when he sent his urine to the clinical laboratory, he found that there was sugar in the urine. Thus every reader of my magazine or the book should become a capable astrologer who could diagonise the disease with least effort even without seeing the patient. Itis the chart erected for the moment of judgement which reveals.
 Where is the necessity for the patient to visit the chamber of the astrologer. For a medical officer, he should see patient, hear his case, do all the possible tests and arrive at a correct diagnosis.
 For an astrologer it is easy to eliminate many of the suspected ones and pitch upon the disease correctly.
 Pathogenic effects of the twelve signs of the Zodiac:
Aries: Reacts upon the head, producing headaches, neuralgia, coma, trance, diseases of the brain and cerebral haemorrhage, insomnia, tendency to inflammatory diseases,
 Pains etc.
 Taurus: Diphtheria, croup, apoplexy, goitre, diseases of the cerebellum, cervical vertebrae. Planets deposited in Taurus will oppose the sign Scorpio. Hence they also cause venereal diseases, piles, fistula and constipation. Irregular menses and troubles thereby. .
 Gemini: Pulmonary diseases, oesinophilia, .dry cough, pneumonia, bronchitis, pleurisy, asthma, inflammation of pericardium, affections of the hands, and tuberculosis.
 Cancer: Pain in the stomach, gas trouble, indigestion cough, hiccough, dropsy, melancholia, hypochondria, hysteria, jaundice, gall stones.
 Leo: Regurgitation of blood, palpitation, aneurism, feeling giddy, faintings, spinal meningitis, curvature of the spine, arterio sclerosis, angina pectoris, anaemia, hydraemia.
 Virgo: Tapeworm, roundworm, hook worm, malnutrition, peritonitis interference with the absorption of the chyle, typhoid, cholera, appendicitis, loose motion, Vitamin B deficiency.
 Libra: Polyuria, suppression of the urine, inflammation of the uterus, bright's disease, lumbago, rheumatic pains, eczema, skin diseases, affection of the vasomotor system, kidney,
 Appendicitis, Hernia.
 Scorpio: Affection of the bladder, coliform infection, trouble in the urethra and generative organs, rectum, colon, the prostate gland, nasal catarrh, adenoids, trouble in the womb, ovaries, venereal diseases, irregularities of the menses, leucorrhoea, renal * stone.
 Sagittarius: affections of the hips, thighs, femur, ileum locomotor ataxia, sciatica, rheumatism, diseases in the hip. Also pulmonary troubles, fracture of collar bone, varicose veins.
Capricorn: Affects the skin, the patella, kneecap and the knee, stomach, eczema, crysipelas, leprosy, leucoderma, digestive disturbances, rheumatism, chills gout, neuralgia, melancholia, blood disorders.
 Aquarius: Affects the ankles, the limbs, varicose veins, sprain in the ankle, dropsy, irregularity of the functioning of the heart, skin and eye diseases.
 Pisces: Affects the feet and the toes. It also affects the intestines. Deformities of the feet, dropsy, delirium tremers due to drugs, addicted to the drinks and thereby complications.
 If Sun would have ‘been the sub-lord of the 6" cusp and is the significator of the houses 6 and also 1, or if the significator of 6 is also the significator of 1 and 's deposited in the constellation of Sun and if Sun would have been in the following signs then the native will suffer from any of the following types of diseases.
 Aries (Sun): Aphasia, loss of conscience, brain fever, cerebral haemorrnage, meningitis, cerebral anaemia or congestion of the bloods, faintings, headaches, thrombosis etc.
 Taurus (Sun): Quinsy, diphtheria, polyps of the nose, eye trouble
 Gemini (Sun): Pleurisy, Eosinophilia, bronchitis, hyperaemia of the lungs.
 Cancer (Sun): anemia, dropsy, dyspepsia, gastric ulcer.
 Leo (Sun): Palpitation of the heart, backache, spinal affections and eye trouble.
(Virgo) Sun: No proper digestion and assimilation, peritonitis, typhoid, dysentry.
(Libra) Sun: Bright’s disease, eruptions of the skin, boils.
 Scorpio (Sun): Renal calculus, genital system disturbed, urinary trouble, menstrual difficulties, affections of the uterus and ovary.
Sagittarius (Sun): Sciatica, paralysis of the limbs, pulmonary diseases.
 Capricorn (Sun): Rheumatism, skin affection, digestive disturbances.
 Aquarius: Varicose veins, dropsy, poor circulation, palpitation of the heart.
 Pisces (Sun): Perspiration of the feet, intestinal troubles typhoid fever.
lf Moon would have been the sub-lord of the 6" cusp and is the significator of the houses 6 and also 1, or if the significator of 6 is also the significator of 1 and is deposited in the constellation of Moon and if Moon would have been in the following signs then the native will suffer from any of the following diseases
 Aries (Moon): Insomnia, headache, lethargy and weak eyes.
 Taurus (Moon): Sore throat, eye trouble, also menstrual complaint. S
 Gemini (Moon): Catarrh of the lungs, asthma, bronchitis, pneumonia, rheumatism in the arms, sprain and pains in the ' shoulders.
 Cancer (Moon): Chronic ailment in the stomach leading to
 Cancer, dropsy, obesity, bloating digestive disturbances, epilepsy.
 Leo (Moon): Backache, disturbed circulation, convulsions, heart trouble, eye defect.
 Virgo (Moon): Bowels disorder, abdominal tumours, dysentery, peritonitis.
 Libra Moon: Bright's disease, abscess of the kidneys, uraemia, headache, insomnia.
 Scorpio (Moon): Disturbed mensus, bladder troubles, hydrocele, genito-urinary disturbances, throat troubles.
 Sagittarius (Moon): Affections of the blood, hip disease, femur fracture, asthma.
Capricorn (Moon): Rheumatism, lack of synovial fluid, skin eruptions, poor digestive disturbances.
 Aquarius (Moon): Varicose veins, ulcers of the leg, dropsy, hysteria, fainting and heart trouble.
 Pisces (Moon): Either drinks much or ever used to take drugs. Tender feet, varieties of disorders in the abdomen.
 If Mars would have been the sub-lord of the sixth cusp and is the significator of houses 6 and also 1 or if the significator of 6 is also the significator of 1 and is deposited in the constellation of Mars and if Mars would have been in the following signs, then the native will suffer from the following types of diseases.
 Aries (Mars): Sunstroke, cerebral haemorrhage, congestion, thrombosis, brain fever, delirium, shooting pain in the head, insomnia, wounds or boil in the head, inflammation of the kidney, renal haemorrhage, renal calculi.
 Taurus (Mars): Mumps, enlarged or inflamed or septic tonsils suffocation, adenoids, diphtheria, polyps, nose-bleeding, g6itre, inflammation of the larynx, excessive menstrual flow, scalding urine, venereal ulcers, enlargement of the prostate gland, stranguary.
 Gemini (Mars): Haemorrhage of the lungs, pneumonia, bronchitis cough, wounds and fractures in the arms, collar bone, fracture in the femur, sciatica.
 Cancer (Mars): Inflammation, ulceration, haemorrhage of the stomach, dyspepsia.
 Leo (Mars): Muscular rheumatism, especially in the back, enlargement of the heart, palpitation, pain in the heart suffocation, fainting, inflammation of the pericardium.
 Virgo (Mars): Typhoid, inflammation of the bowels, peritonitis, worms, diarrhoea, cholera, ventral hernia, appendicitis.
 Libra (Mars): Inflammation of the kidneys, excess of urine, haemorrhage of the kidneys, renal stones, brain fever, sunstroke, pains in the head.
Scorpio (Mars): Excessive menses, profuse bleeding, scalding urine, gravel renal stones, inflammation and ulceration of the uterus and ovaries, vagina, urethra, enlargement of prostate gland, stricture and stranguary, tonsils, larynx, nosebleeding.
 Sagittarius (Mars): Fracture of the femur, dislocation, sciatica and ulcers of the thighs, pneumonia, bronchitis cough.
 Capricorn (Mars): Carbuncles, erysipelas, smallpox, shicken pox, measles, pimples, itches, inflammatory skin diseases, dyspepsia, ulcerated stomach.
 Aquarius (Mars): Varicose veins, fracture of the leg, blood poisoning, heart failure, fainting, palpitation of the heart.
 Pisces (Mars): Deformities of the feet, accidents to them, corns bunions and perspiring feet, ventral hernia, inflammation of the bowels, diarrhoea.
 If the sub-lord of the 6" cusp is Mercury or if Mercury is significator of the sixth house and also the significator of the first or if the significator of the sixth and also the first house be deposited in the constellation of Mercury and if Mercury would have been deposited in.
 Aries (Mercury): Brain fever, headache, vertigo neuralgia nervous disorders of the kidney, lumbago.
 Taurus (Mercury): Stuttering, hoarseness and deafness, nervous affections of the genitro-urinary system.
 Gemini (Mercury): Gouty arthritis, bronchitis, asthma, asphyxiation, pleurisy, nervous pain in the hip.
 Cancer (Mercury): Nervous indigestion, phlegm, flatulence drunkennes.
 Leo (Mercury): Pain the back, fainting, palipitation of the heart.
 Virgo (Mercury): Flatulence, short breath, nervous debility.
 Libra Mercury: Suppression of the urine, renal paroxysms, lumbago vertigo, nervous headache, eye trouble.
Scorpio Mercury: Pain in the bladder and genitals, menstrual trouble, stuttering, deafness.
 Sagittarius (Mercury): Pain in the hips and the thighs, cough, asthma, pleurisy.
 Capricorn (Mercury): Rheumatism, pain in the knee, difficulty, to bend, pain in the back, skin disease, melancholy, nervous indigestion, flatulence.
 Aquarius (Mercury): Shooting and gnawing pains, varicose veins, corrupt blood, palpitation and neuralgia of the heart.
 Pisces (Mercury): Gout in the feet, general weakness, lassitude, worry, tuberculosis, deafness.
(Similarly for Jupiter, Venus and Saturn we have to predict)

ON BLINDNESS
 The planets which are said to give vision or cause blindness are Moon, Sun and Venus. Sun and Moon throw light and remove darkness. As regards Venus, in Hindu Mythology it is said that
 Venus is the Priest or the Preceptor of the Demons. It is presumed to be without one eye, as it is said that one eye was affected by
 Lord Vishnu when he took the Avathar of “Vamana”. Hence if one is to be blind, one should run the period of Sun or Moon or
 Venus or those deposited in their constellations or any planet deposited in the constellation of the occupant or owner of second house and sub of the significator of 12" house who is connected with Sun or Moon or Venus. This is Krishnamurti Padhdhati.
 But according to traditional astrology there are various rules and let me quote a few of the many. After reading, you will find them to be very general; we should be blind and deaf according to these rules.
1. If lord of Lagna is conjoined with Sun and Venus and if they occupy any of the three evil houses 6 or 8 or 12 one will be blind from birth itself.
2. Ifthe two evils, Saturn and Mars, are in 5 or 9 and Rahu is in the Lagna along with eclipsed Sun, one will be blind from birth.
3. If lords of 1 and 2 are in 6 or 8 or 12 and are conjoined with Sun and Venus, one will be born blind. (Persons born during 8 planets configuration at night between 7 and 9 PM. in Leo Lagna are not blind).
4. if Moon and Mars cause Chandramangala yoga in 6 or 8 or 12, one become blind, due to fall.
5. Similarly, Moon and Jupiter conjoined (causing
 Gajakesari yoga) be in 6 or 8 or 12, one becomes blind due to sexual excesses.
6. If Sun and Moon are conjoined in 1, 3, 4, 7 or 10, one becomes blind. That is, one will use spectacles.
7. If Mars occupies the sign belonging to an evil planet which is the first or fourth or seventh or tenth house, one is blind.
8. If one is born in Cancer or Leo and Sun is in the 7" one becomes blind.
9. If lords of 1, 2 and 12 conjoin Venus and all of them are together in 6 or 8 or 12, one becomes blind.
10. If there is an evil planet in the second house conjoined with Venus and Moon, one is blind.
11.Malefics in houses 4 and 5 make a person blind.
12.Moon in 6 or 8 or 12 receiving aspect from a malefic causes blindness.
13.Sun and Moon in 12 not aspected by benefics, cause loss of vision.
14. If one is born in Leo Lagna and Saturn or Venus occupy the Lagna, one suffers from blindness.
15.Saturn in 12, Moon in 2, and Sun in 8 causes loss of vision.
+ KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI ® 289
16. Moon in 6, Sun in 8, Mars in 12, and Saturn in 2 deprives one of his eyesight.
17. Saturn in the fourth house and receiving aspect from another malefic, causes loss of sight.
18. Rahu in § to Venus or to Lagna and is aspected by Sun maxes one blind.
19. Moon and Venus in 6 or 8 or 12 causes night blindness.
20. Moon, Venus and lord of 2 in the Lagna cause night blindness.
21. Lords of 1 and 2 in 6 or 8 or 12 indicate loss of eyes.
22. Mars in 12 affects left eye, whereas Saturn in 2 affects the right eye.
23. If the lagna is occupied by lords of 2, 6 and 10 with Venus, due to the orders of the Government, one will lose his eye (Not applicable, nowadays, thank God!)
Thus there are many more rules. Traditional Astrologers must cram these general rules and should rernember all these doubtful rules at the time of application to read the result. One should not forget that there is a limit to which such rules can be committed to memory, apart from the utility of such rules in the present day conditions.
 Let us see how far the above rules apply. Also how K.P. explains.
 The horoscope of a young child whose birthday came a few days ago is given above. The child is blind from the birth.
 Saturn Dasa balance at the time of birth was 5 years, 11 months, 16 days. Mars Bhukti was operating at the time of birth and Moon during Epoch.
    - Traditional Method:
 According to the Hindu method no evil planet is in 2 or 12, (Kethu is in Lagna Bhava). Only Jupiter is in 12 according to the traditional method. 11 house which is considered to be one which will invariably offer desirable results is tenanted by Sun,
 Mercury and Venus. Nowhere it is said that these planets in 11 will cause blindness. According to tradition, Saturn comes to the 7" Bhava. None of the 23 rules given above finds a place.
 What do the Westerners say? Let us see what Sepharia! and
 Carter have mentioned in their books. “The Manual of Astrology” and “Encyclopaedia of Psychological Astrology” respectively.
 Sepharial (Page 78 - Physical Peculiarities ) says as follows:
“The eyes: The Moon being with the Pleiades (in Taurus 29°) or in ASSELLI (Leo 0° or with Antaras (In Sagittarius 8°) or the Sun in these three places afflicted by Mars from an angle, the person born may become blind.
 The same result follows from the Moon in opposition to the
 Sun, or the Moon in conjunction with the Sun, in any of these nebulous parts of the zodiac. When either the Sun or Moon is in or near Taurus 29° Leo 6° or Sagittarius 8° and afflicted by any
planet, defective eye sight is the result, the cause differing according to afflicting planet.
 The Sun in Aquarius, afflicted by Saturn, especially by the opposition or conjunction, stone blindness frequently results. The sign Aquarius corresponds to the etheric vibrations, and therefore has affinity with the sense of sight.
 The Sun and Moon being in opposition from Aries and Libra give weak sight, and sometimes sore eyes. The same if the Sun or Moon be in Aries and afflicted by Mars or Saturn.
 Pluto rising, squared by the Sun and Moon will also cause weak sight and accentuate liability to blindness, more especially if the signs Taurus, Leo or Aquarius are involved.
 If a malefic planet occupies any of the nebulous parts of the
 Zodiac already referred to, and afflict the Sun or Moon by aspect then danger of blindness will arise from an accident, more particularly if the malefic be elevated above the luminary.
 In this matter it is better to have the Moon afflicted than the
 Sun, for it gives greater hope of relief.
 Sight (Eye), (Carter) Visual defects are said to occur when the luminaries are afflicted in or from the nebulous parts of the
 Zodiac. It need hardly be said that the analogical connection between nebula and clouded sight upon which this tradition be based, must not be taken as the only foundation of the thesis, which is well supported by the facts.
 The following parts of the zodiac especially have this effect: 8° Gemini — Sagittarius (Aldebaran and Antares). 6° Leo — Aquarius (the Aselli) 3° Cancer — Capricorn 29° Taurus — Scorpio (the Pleiades).
 It will be noted that not all of these are coincident with notable nebulae.
Affliction in the centre of mutable signs is very common.
 Strong bad aspects involving these areas and the luminaries, especially if in angles, are very liable to cause serious trouble.
/ As ascending signs, Gemini, Aquarius and Capricorn probably most often have defective sight. Gemini has often very quick and keen vision, but there is generally some defect of focus, etc.
 The luminaries in strong mutual affliction nearly always cause unequal sight with the two eyes.
 Numerous examples are given in various text-books.
 It should be borne in mind that Mercury has much to do with the entire nervous system, of which the eyes are the most developed and exposed part, and afflictions to this planet often cause myopia.
 Squinting is usually indicated by Mercury afflicted Mars or
 Uranus, and perhaps by Neptune with a Mars sign is involved.
 Cataract: It would seem that the horoscope features mentioned under sight will usually appear more or less prominently and an affliction of Mercury from Neptune is common. This is for cataract.
 K.P
 Second house shows right eye; 12" house indicates left eye.
 Disease is indicated by the sixth house; 8" the danger, 12" the defect.
 As per Krishnamurti Padhdhati Ketu isin 12 in the above example chart. Any planet in the constellation of Ketu shows the defect, and depending on the nature of the planet and the houses signified by it, the nature of the defect is to be ascertained. Saturn is in Aswini; Mercury and Venus are in Makam, in Ketu star.
 Therefore these three planets denote defect only when the 12" cusp sub lord denotes disease or defect.
The 12" cusp is in Sun's star, Moon sub. Moon is in 6" house as per K.P But tradition says that Moon is in 7. Hence one can expect disease or defect. As nodes offer the result of the planet by which they are aspected, Ketu has to give the results of Moon also as Moon aspects Ketu. Further, Ketu is in Moon’s constellation. As
 Moon and Sun are the luminaries giving light to us, and when Moon is spoiled by being the sub-lord of the 12" cusp and is in 6, vision is affected. The epoch of the child was during Saturn Dasa Moon sub period. As Saturn by nature is a planet for deficiency and Moon is for vision, the child has no perfection in the development of the ocular system during intra-uterine life. Therefore if the sub-lord of the 12” cusp is in 6, the house of disease, and if the sub-lord is in the constellation of the planet occupying or owning 6 or 8 or 12 itis definite that one will have the defect from the time when the significators conjointly operate. If Saturn Dasa Moon Bhulkti is to operate at some age, then the child will become blind then.
 Any Cure: The dasa that are to run are Saturn, Mercury, Ketu and Venus. Ketu is in 12 in the constellation of Moon in 6. Saturn,
 Mercury and Venus are in Kethu star. Hence cure is out of question.
 Longevity of the child: Saturn Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti, Venus
 Anthra, Mercury Shookshma is anxious, i.e. around August 1973.

( HEALTH AND HEART )
 Heart means the organ of the body which receives both the pure and impure blood and circulates throughout the body to carry the food and to bring back the waste in the system. It is both a sump well getting filled with pure and wholesome/liquid and cesspool receiving the deoxidised blood. Also it is the pumping set. Heart means affection also.
    - Hindu system
 Mr. Podumanai Chomadri in Jatakadesa marga refers to each part of the body and advises which part we have to judge to note the disease or defect of an organ.
Divide each sign into three equal parts so that each extends to 10 dec.
 Always count from the Lagna sign.
 First decanate: i.e. first ten degrees indicate from the Lagna sign 1. Head; 2. Right eye; 3. Right ear; 4. Right nostril; 5. Right cheek; 6. Right jaw; 7. Mouth; 8. Left jaw; 9. Left cheek; 10. Left nostril; 11. Left ear; 12. Left eye.
 Second decanate: i.e. 10" to 20 degree in each sign counted from the Lagna sign. 1. Neck; 2. Right shoulder; 3. Right arm; 4.
 Right portion of body; 5. Right side of heart; 6. Right side of the chest; 7. Navet portion; 8. Left chest; 9. Left side of the heart; 10.
 Left side of the body; 11. Left arm; 12. Left shoulder.
 Third decanate: i.e. when counted from the lagna sign in each sign 20 degrees to 30 degrees represent in order, Pelvis, generative system, Right testicle, Right thigh, Right knee, Right leg calf muscle, both the legs, left calf muscle, !ef patella, left thigh, left testicle and at last the Anus.
 The above is the same given by Sri Ramadayalu in
 Sankedanidhi; in Chapter 4. Slokas 124 and 125.
 Kalidas in Uttarakalamritha says that Moon denotes Heart whereas Sun and Mars denote blood.
 Prithuyasa in Horasara states that Moon in Aquarius will cause heart disease and also that when it is in Aquarius at birth and when its dasa is running one will develop heart disease.
 Mantraeswara in Paladeepika says that Rahu causes the palpitation of the heart. He says that the character of one’s heart, meaning affection, etc., is to be judged from Moon.
 Thus there are various statements and before one takes a decision to follow any, his next birth will approach.
 All westerners are of the same opinion that the 5" house represents heart and Sun indicates heart. Other planets connected with Sun and afflicting Sun denotes the various types of the disease.
 Mr. Parimal Purkayastha in his book “Indian Astrology and
 Diseases” appears to have a compromise. He says “Heart
diseases are disordered action of heart ... .. Karkataka rasi is the sea of heart in natural zodiac. Fourth house governs the same.
 Moon is Karaka for heart and sun rules the heart diseases.” He adds “So the affliction of Sun, Moon, Mars, Karkat rasi, fourth house, lord of 4" house etc., and any relation to any of them with 6" house, lord of the 6" house, Kanya rasi or with disease inflicting house or planet, give rise to the disease of the heart.
 What does Krishnamurti Padhdhati say? 1. Lagna shows health. It does not mean that it guarantees good health. It depends on the sub-lord of the Ascendant. i.e.,
 If the sub-lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation of the significator of 6 or 8 or 12 then one suffers from disease or faces danger or is hospitalised. 2. 6" house indicates disease. It affects one's health. 3. 8" house threatens danger. 4. 12" house is for hospitalisation.
 Significators of the 6" indicate disease in their conjoined periods or sub-periods.
 In this chart given below the Lagna is in 25 deg. 6 minutes in
 Leo. It is in Venus constellation and Mercury sub.
What does Mercury indicate and what he will give in his time.
 He is the significator of the houses 12, 1,2 and 11. Hence Mercury shows that one will be in bed as it is the significator of 12 and since it is in Leo due to heart disease. As it is Mercury, it may be neuro-circulatory Asthenia or nervous disease of the heart.
 Saturn aspecting Mercury denotes that it will be a chronic one.
 Sixth house is unoccupied. It is owned by Saturn and Saturn alone is in its constellation. During its period there will be difficulty in the pulmonary system.
8" house is occupied by Moon and Ketu. Sun, Moon and
 Mars are all in Ketu star and no planet is in Moon’s star.
12" house is occupied by Sun and Mars and owned by Moon.
 Therefore this native is to run according to his chart dasas of
 Venus, Sun, Moon and Mars. All these are to cause disease and danger.
    - Cure any! When! What Treatment!
Cure is to be seen from the 5" and the 11" houses. Jupiter,
 Mercury (5" & 11 house owner respetively) and Venus conjoined with Jupiter alone can cause the cure and it will be during Venus
 Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra.
 It will be in July 1976 when Sun transits in Punarvasu in the 11" house. Sun, Mars and Mercury in the same sign indicate that he will be cured by a surgeon (Sun Dhanvantry; Mars
 Surgery).

Quit STAMMERING DISAPPEAR )
 The twélve signs of the Zodiac rule certain parts of the body:
 One should not ignore that each sign has also subsidiary dominion over the part of the body denoted by the sign 180 away, i.e. opposite sign.
Max Heindel and Augusta Foss Heindel have said Affliction of Gemini may cause Bronchitis or weaken the arms and shoulders, but Sciatica, a Sagittarius disease, may also result.
 Taurus rules the throat; it has great sympathy with Scorpio, the sign that rules the generative organs, hence we note the change of voice in boys at the time of puberty; also woman, when she forsakes the path of chastity and leads a life of debauch, acquires a coarser voice. Taurus rules the larynx, but Mercury governs the air which stirs the vocal cords to vibrations, There is similar telation between Taurus (ruling the vocal organs) and Mercury (ruling the air which passes through the larynx) as between instrument and player. If Taurus (and Scorpio) are unafflicted, the vocal organ is in good condition, but an afflicted Mercury my nevertheless cause a functional discrer of the speech.
 In the following two horoscopes let us see how the speech is affected. There is no free flow of speech. There is the impediment. It is a defect. It is not a disease. According to
 Krishnamurti padhdhati one is to judge the sub-lord of the 2" «Cusp. (Because among twins, one is an orator; the other stammers. Planets, Bhavas everything remain the same position.
 Only the cusps of each house changes. Professor Krishnamurti has discovered this truth which neither the Savants of Western
 Countries nor the Saints of our India had so far thought of or taught to us.)
 Professor Krishnamurti says if the sublord of the 2°¢ cusp is
 Mercury, one speaks a lot, best fitted for Insurance agent, salesman, propagandist, etc. if the sub-lord is Mars, one will be blunt and outspoken; it is Saturn, he speaks a little and he drags on; if Jupiter, wise talk; if Venus, mostly the talk will be about the other sex or sexual life. If it is Rahu or Ketu, defect in speech. If
 Rahu or Ketu is in 12, defect in vision; if they are in 2, defect in speech.
 Venus Dasa balance 15 years 1 month 24 days.
 Second cusp is in the constellation of a watery planet and sub of Ketu (Mute signs are watery sign, Voice signs are airy signs).
 Hence note where Ketu is. It is in the second sign. It has to signify 2" house result also. Rahu which is in the opposite sign is in Ketu sub. Therefore, stammering must continue till Rahu
 Dasa Ketu Bhukti is over.
 As the dasa lord receives beneficial aspect from Jupiter, Rahu itself will start improving one’s speech by reducing stammering.
Rahu Dasa Venus Bhukti Jupiter Anthra onwards, stammering will disappear. i.e. November 1970, when Sun transits in Venus sign, Rahu star.
2nd cusp is in Saturn sign Jupiter star and Ketu sub. Further
 Rahu is to offer the 24 house results also. Hence there is stammering. Mars afflicting Ketu or 2*¢ house by conjunction or aspect, the person takes much pain to speak out. If Jupiter conjoins or aspects, it is by Divine Grace, one will have the cure.

TIME OF MARRIAGE (KP)
 By marriage, it is meant that one more member is added to the family which is indicated by the second house. This addition is an agreement which is denoted by the seventh house and such an additional member brings permanent tie of friendship for pleasure and progeny, shown by the 11" house. That is why houses 2, 7 and 11 are examined to find out whether:
(a) marriage is promised or not;
(b) the description of the partner, his or her ruling planets, whether already related or not; his or her features, characteristics, profession, etc.;
(c) time of marriage; and
(d) state of married life; (1) whether it is a harmonious one promising an inseparable temperament or (2) the couple without any attachment, simply to maintain the prestige of the family, manage to live in the same premises or (3) to lead the life like cat and rats, especially during daytime even though the couple may become the parents of many children or (4) to be going on marrying and divorcing.
(s the marriage promised or not?
 Marriage is celebrated in youth or in proper age if (according to Hindu system) —
(a) Moon and Venus occupy fruitful signs. Taurus-Rishaba,
 Cancer-Kataka, Scorpio-Vrischika, Pisces-Meena and also Sagittarius-Dhanus;
(b) Or if the 7" cusp falls in any of these signs;
(c) Or Jupiter-Guru or Venus-Sukra occupy the houses 2,70r 11;
(d) Or Jupiter is conjoined with Moon in 1, 5, 10, 11; (e) Or Venus is conjoined with Moon in 1, 5, 10 or 11;
(f) And Moon as well. as Venus is not-aspected by Saturn but is stronger than Saturn;
(g) Or lord of Lagna is conjoined with lord of 7 and occupies a favourable house;
(h) Or lord of Lagna and lord of 7 are in 3 and 11 or 5 and 9 to each other;
(i) Or benefics occupy 2 or 7 or 11 counted from Lagna and Moon sign;
(j) Orthe houses 2 or 7 or 11 have favourable connections with benefics
(k) Or benefic in 7 and both lord of Lagna and lord of 7 are strong and well posited;
(I) Or Venus is in his own or exalted sign and lord of 7 in beneficial house;
(m) Or Mercury in 7 and Venus conjoined with lord of 7; (n) Or lord of 7 is in 11 and Venus in 2; (0) Or Venus is in Lagna and Lord of Lagna is in 7;
(p) Or if there is mutual exchange between lords of 1 and 7 when it is termed as Madhana Gopalyoga;
(q) Or Jupiter is strong in the 7" house conjoined with benefics;
(rt) Or Venus is strong in the 7" house; (s) Or lord of 7, Venus occupies the 2" house; (t) Or lord of Lagna is in 10 and lord of 2 is in 11; (u) Or benefics in 1 or 2 or 7; (v) Or lords of 2 and 11 in mutual exchange; (w) Or lord of 2 and 7 in 11;
(x) Or (according to Western system) Moon and Venus occupy beneficial houses and receive harmonious aspects, in the male’s map;
(y) Or Sun and Mars in bride’s chart occupy favourable houses and receive good aspects from other planets;
(z) Ora benefic is transiting very close to the Ascendant or 7" Cusp at the time of birth in the 12" house or 6" house.
 If it is arranged marriage, the parents may or may not take much pains to find out the bridegroom, if it s a love marriage; then also, the couple may or may not take a long time to give expression to their love to celebrate it.
The following chart is that of a girl who got married at the age of 12, her birth was on 29-6-1926 at 19 Gathis. 45 Vikathis.
Balance of Mars dasa 2 years, 10 months and 19 days. The date of marriage was 11-7-1938, on a Monday in Moolam star.
 She was running Rahu dasa Mercury Bhukti Moon Anthra.
 The Lagna is weak as its lord is in the 8" house and the
 Lagna is occupied by Saturn. Moon sign is stronger as it is conjoined with the benefic, Jupiter and the lord of the rasi is in the 9" sign in exaltation. Hence Moon sign is stronger.
 Second house is occupied by Mars. Its stars are Mrigasirisha,
 Chitra and Dhanishta. No planet is in Mrigasirisha, none in Chithrai but Moon and Jupiter are in star Dhanishta. Both of them are significators. i.e. Moon and Jupiter, Mars by occupying the second house is next in strength.
11™ house is occupied by Ketu. Its stars are Aswini, Makam and Moolam. No planet is found in any of these three stars.
7 house is vacant.
Lord of 2 and 11 is Jupiter. Its stars are Punarvasu. Visakam and Poorvapathra-Rahu was in Punarvasu: Sani in Visaka and none in Poorvapathra.
 Hence Rahu and Sani are also significators of the two. Rahu is conjoined with Sun, the lord of 7. So Rahu has greater influence.
 Sun, the lord of 7, rules Karthikai, Uthrapalguni and Uthrashada.
 Venus alone was in Karthikai. As Sun conjoined with Rahu get weakened, Venus also will be offering the results of the 7" house.
 Hence Moon, Jupiter, Rahu, Saturn and Ketu are the significators, Mercury in the constellation of Saturn, and aspected by Saturn, is also auspicious. It gains strength to give marriage.
 Anode, conjoined with a planet gives the results of the planet.
 As Sun rules the 7" house, Rahu is to bless her with marriage since Rahu is conjoined with Sun. Further, it is under the sway of
 Jupiter, lord of 2 and 11, counted from the Moon sign.
 Saturn in Lagna cause delay in marriage. It can, till its period is over. Even though Budha is aspected by Sani according to
 Hindu method by the 10" aspect, yet they are 108° away and form good aspect. If it were to be 90°, Mercury cannot give the wedding. Being 108° away, Mercury will be helpful.
 To dasanatha Rahu, Mercury is, in advance, in the second house. Therefore Rahu Dasa Mercury Bhukti was the period of marriage.
(1) Moon and Jupiter in close conjunction is auspicious for early marriage;
(2) Moon and Jupiter in 5 to Lagna is favourable to celebrate the marriage in youth,
(3) Venus, lord of Lagna and Mars, lord of 7, are in 3 and 11 to each other.
 This horoscope is illustrated to show that very early marriage can take place, even though exalted Saturn was in the ascendant as Jupiter by its aspect to Saturn reduces its malefic results and the conjunction of Moon and Jupiter is very beneficial.
Marriage is promised but it comes off late in life:
(a) If Saturn is either in 1, 3, 5 or 7 or 10 counted from
 Lagna or Moon sign and if he does not own beneficial houses; (b) If malefics are in the 7 Bhava, receiving adverse aspects from Jupiter or Uranus; (c) If Mars is in the 8° house; (d) If Moon and Saturn conjoin together especially in 1, 2,7 0r 11. (e) If Mars and Venus are conjoined together in 5, 7 or 9 and both receive evil aspects from Jupiter or
 Uranus; (f) If the lord of 7 and Venus are aspected by Saturn; (g) If Moon and Venus are squared by Jupiter or Uranus.
 There will be many proposals, one after another they will fall through and years will pass on. The parents and the bride will get so much dejected and vexed that the bride decides to remain unmarried. But at last, a fresh negotiation will come up with a new party and the marriage will be fixed and celebrated suddenly.
 The following ones are the charts of two individuals; one male and another female and both are to be married.
 Born on 2-4-1926 Friday at 39G, 40 V, in Anuradha star with a balance of Saturn dasa for 9 years 11 months and 27 days.
 Saturn is not a Rajayogathipathi, nor does he own the rasi.
 In the chart of the boy -
 Second house is occupied by Ketu and it delays marriage.
 Lords of 2 and 11 are in debilitation. Venus lord of 7, in 4 will offer the marriage.
 Moon and Jupiter forming favourable aspect, will on a later date settle a family life on you.
 Saturn dasa balance 9y 11m 27 d
Moon dasa balance 2y 6m 19 d.
Hence, Venus Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Jupiter Anthra will give the marriage at the end January 1965 itself.
 In the Girl's horoscope (a) Evil node in 7 shows delay (Rahu); (b) Mars in 8 shows hindrances and obstacles; (c) Saturn aspects the 11" house;
(d) Moon in Capricorn is afflicted by Saturn, the relative position between the two being 22 1/2 degrees.
 The above are the indications showing that the marriage will be accomplished with great difficulty.
 The time of marriage will be during Jupiter Dasa, Jupiter
 Bhukti, Rahu Anthra on or around 14" July, 1965. Actually the marriage was fixed in June and celebrated on 14-7-1965.
    - (LoNcevity OF PARTNERSHIP
 Agentleman who is the partner of a firm asked the longevity of his partnership. The relationship with partners were going from bad to worse day by day. The queriest gave Number 34 and the Chart was prepared as follows:
 Moon indicates the position of mind. She is in 2" from 7"
 Bhava in the Star of Venus and in the sub of Rahu. Venus is the
 Asc. Sign lord and Rahu is posited in 10" in his own star and in
 Mercury sub. 1* Cusp is in Moon star and in Mercury sub.
 Chandra star Lord Venus is in Moon sign, Saturn star and Moon sub. 7" Cusp falls in Mercury star and sub, So the query is related to himself for business partnership and its longevity.
 For partnership 7* Bhava is to be judged and for its longevity the Maraka and Bhadhakasthana of 7" are to be judged. 7" cusp falls in Scorpio which is a fixed sign. So 9" from it is the
 Bhadhakasthana for it. Itis 3“ from the Asc and falls under Cancer sign, Saturn star and Ketu sub. The Maraka Sthanas are in
 Sagittarius and Taurus signs ir, Ketu star, Mercury sub and Moon
 Star, Mercury sub respectively. Letus judge each House separately.
 Bhadhakasthana is under Cancer sign, Saturn star and Ketu sub, Vénus is posited there. Moon and Saturn are in Venus stars and hence they are the strong significators of this Bhava.
 Besides these, Venus is also the significator of this Bhava.
2 Bhava from 7" is under Sagittarius sign. Ketu star and
 Mercury sub. Moon is posited there and Mercury, the only planet in her star, is the strong Significator of the Bhava Moon is the second grade significator and Jupiter being the sign lord is the 3" grade significator of this Bhava. Second Marakasthana is in
 Taurus sign, Moon star and Mercury sub. Sun is posited there.
 No planet is in Sun star. Hence it is the strong significator of this
 Bhava. Moon and Saturn are the 2" grade significators being in the star of Venus who is the sign lord of this Bhava. Rahu and
 Ketu are also the Significators of these Houses. Hence Moon,
 Saturn, Venus, Mercury, Jupiter, Sun, Rahu and Ketu are the significators of Bhadhakasthana and Marakasthanas. To select the few strongest and to eliminate the rest, Prof. K. S. K. suggests
to see the Ruling Planets at the time of Judgement and these are as follows :-
 Saturn - Day-lord for Saturday
 Venus - Moon Star
 Jupiter - Moon Rasi Lord and Asc Lord
 Rahu - Lagna Star Lord.
 Now he is running Venus Dasa, Rahu Bhukti and Mercury
 Anthra. Now | was disturbed by some visitors and the work had to be stopped. Again on 26-6-'70 Friday at 5.30 PM. the Judgement was considered. The ruling planets were as follows : -
 Venus = Daylord
 Saturn - Moon star Lord
 Jupiter Moon Rasi Lord
 Mars = Asc. Lord
 Mercury - Asc. Star Lord
 On 13-8-'70 he will run Venus Dasa Rahu Bhukti Mercury
 Anthra and Saturn Sookshma till 8-9-'70 and this period favours the desolation of Partnership.
 Here Anthara Lord Mercury is very important as it is the sub- lord of 11" Cusp from Asc. as well as for seventh. Besides this
 Mercury is also the sub-lord of Asc. 2", 5", 6", 7", 8", 41" and 12" Cusps. Nodes are in the sub of Mercury. So Mercury being the chief among the Karaka Planets of Business, promises for the desolation of Partnership, but besides this it also promises that the queriest will not close the firm out right and he will do his business under the same name and style by making an another partnership deed and this event will happen between 13-8-'70 to 8-9-'70. Now let us check the transit period and see whether it tallies with ruling planets or not. Mercury will be retrograde on 31* August, and hence she will contribute the results before 31*
 August.
 In transit on 28" August Friday, Sun will be in Ketu star and
 Mercury sub Moon will be in Saturn star, Saturn sub and in own sign. Dasanath Venus will be in Mars star, Jupiter sub and Mercury sign. Bhuktinath Rahu will be in his own star, own sub and in
 Saturn sign. Antharanath Mercury will be Sun star, Saturn sub and in own sign having a rapt conjunction with Sun who is deputised by Ketu. Sookshmanath Saturn will be in Mars sign,
 Sun star and Rahu sub. Thus the transit agrees with the fructification of results.
    - LETTER TO THE EDITOR
 Respected Sir,
 These days | am reading your “Krishnamurti Padhdhati”.
 Really as much as | read it so much | am being impressed by your profound knowledge in Astrology. Truly speaking, you are an incarnation of some great Maharishi. Your magazine ‘Astrology & Athrishta’ is unparallel. You and your method are unique, original and great. Really you are proud of Mother India.
| find no words to thank you for writing a great book like ‘Krishnamurti Padhdhati’ which would prove to be unique work and make your name ever shining in golden words in the world of Astrology. Please accept my humble respects.
 Yours Devotee (Sd.) B.M. Sharma, M.Sc.,
 Indore.
 Name: PK. Rangachari
 Profession: Doctor
| must acknowledge Mr. Krishnamurti’s remarkable accurate predictions based on my horoscope. He had told me that | would be in a foreign country from the 15" August, 1968. At the time of my consulting him, my chances of going abroad were far remote.
310 * PREDICTIVE STELLAR ASTROLOGY ©
But it so happened that as he had predicted. | left Delhi and touched Teheran on the morning of 15" August 1968. This appears to me quite remarkable.
 P. K. Rangachari, 419" Aug.’68 University of Alberta
 Etmonton, Canada
 Learned Dear Sir,
 Excuse the delay in conveying my thanks. As predicted by you, | started only on the 16" May from Nagapattinam. Even though the ship was due to start on 15" and | boarded the ship on the 15", the ship started only on 16" owing to delay in loading cargo. |came here on 21-5-68. People here have come to know
that | am an astrologer and want to consult
 MG..o sc euasniimaravens (Sd.) V. S. Mani
 C/o A. Ramiah
1869 Thana List, Bukit Martayam
 PM. Central Malaysia.
 From
 S.C. Deb,
 B.A., C.A., L.I.N., A.C.L.S. (Lond.)
 Chartered Secretary, Calcutta
 To
 Jyotish Marthand K. S. Krishnamurti 12 Brahmin Street
 Saidapet, Madras-15.
 Dear Sir,
 Last year you predicted that my friend Sri Sukumar
 Bhattacharjee, one of the officials in Labour Bengal, would proceed to foreign country on the 15" April 1968 and | am delighted to inform you that he left Calcutta, for Canada on the same day as predicted by you. | received his first letter to-day.
While | was talking to another officer of the same department, he said that you predicted to him that he would visit many countries in 1967 and actually he went, as predicted by you. Only comments, | dare make that you are wonderful and how accurate your predictions are.
 Thanking you,
 Yours faithfully,
 S.C. Deb.
 Dr. T. T. Padmanabha Rao
 Lecturer in Chemistry, 5/953-Krishanpura,
 Hanamkonda,
 Warrangal.
 Shri Pujya Krishnamurti Garu,
 Namasthe!
lam happy to inform you that | have been selected for West!
 German Scholarship and the schedule of journey is on 9" June 00:20. | am happy to inform you that what you predicted for me, when you came to our college recently came true.
| request | may have your guidance in my path. \Thank you,
 Yours faithfully,
 T.V. Padmanabah Rao 11-4-68.

( OVERSEAS — EXAMPLE )
 It is quite a unique feature of KRISHNAMURT! PADHDHATI that the Nirayana cusps are considered in quite a different way from the old traditional system. The way Mr. Krishnamurti attaches importance to the constellations and subs of different cusps and their proper application to any particular chart is really marvelous.
 He is quite right to say that the cusps denote exclusively the indications of Bhavas reflected for the native. This is scientific and appealing to any intelligent mind. In case of twins or children born in near proximity of time, what is that which changes? All the planets and their degree positions remain almost the same.
 Itis only the cusp and the cusp alone, which changes so rapidly with the lapse of the most minimum period of time. Hence cusps must be given their due importance in analysis of any chart.
 At times, when the analysis of Bhavas does not point out a particular planet as a significator or wherever there is some confusion in regard to selection of significators for a particular point in consideration, the cusps alone come to our rescue and solve our problem.
 Now the principle to be commonly applied is very simple. _
 Mark where a particular cusp lies, what is its constellation and what is its sub. Further mark whether any planet is posited in the constellation of the, constellation lord of the cusp. If so, take the planet as a significator. If no planet is posited in its constellation, consider that very planet alone.
 Similarly mark who is the sub lord of a particular cusp. Further notice whether any planet is posited in its constellation. If so, that planet will be a very strong significator, because according to K.P; it is the sub and sub alone which decides a particular matter.
In this article, it has been my sincere endeavour to highlight this consideration.
    - ASTROLOGICAL ANALYSIS
 This chart is to be studied from the point of view of foreign travel or overseas.
 Let us first of all know the principle according to K.P for this consideration. “One will have the opportunity to go overseas only when the 12th Cusp sublord is a significator of house 3 or 9 or 12 and the event would take place during the conjoined periods of the significators of houses 3,9 &12.” " In the above chart, the 12th cusp sub lord is ‘Jupiter and he is a significator of 3rd house (by ownership of the house). Hence this native has got the opportunity to go overseas. Let us find out the time of event.
Consider houses 3,9 and 12.
3rd house is occupied by Kethu, Sun & Venus. No planet is in the constellations of Kethu & Sun. Kethu, Sun, Venus and Mars are in the constellations ruled by Venus. Jupiter is owner of 3 and no planetis in its star.
 So Kethu, Sun, Venus & Mars and Jupiter are the significators of 3
9th House is occupied by Rahu. Rahu alone is tenanted in its own star. Owner of 9th house is Mercury. Only Mercury is in its own star, So Rahu & Mercury are the significators of Sth house.
42th house is occupied by none-Mercury is the owner, in its own star.
 Hence the significators of houses 3, 9 &12 according to the above analysis are Kethu, Sun, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Rahu &
 Mercury. The nodes are stronger than the planets. Here Kethu is conjoined with Sun & Venus and also in the houses of Jupiter.
 So kethu is stronger and can be substituted for Venus,
 Sun & Jupiter. So also Rahu for Mercury. Hence the strong significators are Kethu, Rahu and Mars.
Actually, the native left for UK on 3.10.1951 during Saturn dasa, Rahu bhukti, Mars antara and Saturn shookshma. The day is ruled by Mercury, Moon's sign is Libra, ruled by Venus, Moon's star is Swathi, ruled by Rahu.
 It may be slightly surprising to note that Saturn has come as
 Dasa lord as well as shookshma lord, at the time of fructification of the event because he is not finding a place as one of the strong significators during our analysis of houses 3, 9 & 12. Though he
qualifies himself as one of the significators, by virtue of being aspected by Mars and also conjoined with Mercury but it is only feeble.
 Please note that Saturn is the sublord of 3rd and 9th cusp and no planet is tenanted in his star except himself. So as | mentioned in the beginning of this article, Saturn has emerged as a strong significator in the above case, by owning the sub of relevant cusps and not from analysis of bhavas. Thus the importance of cuspal sublord is portrayed through this example.

SCHOLARSHIP FOR HIGHER STUDIES
 Higher studies is indicated by 9" house. During the period or subperiod of the significator of 9" house one will persecute studies further.
 Stay in a foreign country is to be judged from 12" house for further studies 9" and for job 6 and 10 also.
 Scholarship is a non-refundable loan with a string attached to it. Hence judge houses 6 and 11.
 Horoscope is as follows:
 Moon Dasa balance years 9-11-7 days.
 Jupiter Dasa Saturn Bhukti is from 16-5-1967 to 28-11-1969.
9" cusp is at 20 39’ Capricorn-Nirayana. Itis in Moon star —
 Venus sub. Moon is the lord of 3, It alone is in its constellation,
and own sub. It shows one’s inclination. Sub lord of 9* cusp is
 Venus. It isin 11. Itis in its own constellation. It shows fulfilment of one’s desire and success in efforts.
 Therefore you will have higher studies. There is no planet in 9" house. Saturn is the owner. Mars is in Saturn star, Mars is the significator of 9* house. Rahu is to act as an agent of Mars. So, long journey and higher studies are shown by Saturn and Mars.
12" house shows life in a foreign place. Jupiter is in 12. No planet is in Jupiter star. Hence Jupiter will give life in a foreign place.
6" house is unoccupied. It is owned by Venus. Kethu represents Venus. Sun and Rahu are in Kethu star, Saturn is in
 Venus star.
11" house is occupied by a majority of planets. Of them
 Rahu is the strongest. It is in the sub of Saturn. Hence Rahu will offer the result of taking loan — 6" house matter.
 Rahu and Kethu give 6 and 11" house results. Both will contribute for schoiarship. Therefore Jupiter Dasa Saturn Bhukti
 Rahu Anthra Kethu Shookshma gives scholarship, long journey, life in a foreign place, higher studies, etc. It will be around 24-5- 1969.
 Transit: Saturn, lord of 9 conjoins lord of 4 Sun. Jupiter will be stationary and take direct course in the constellation of Moon indicating 3% house for short journey and leaving one’s permanent place of residence.

HIGHER STUDIES IN FOREIGN COUNTRY
 The horoscope is as follows:
 Moon Dasa balance 7 years 4 months 20 days.
 For high school and College studies which need regular attendance to learn the subjects by hearing the lectures from the beginning to the end, one is to judge the houses 4 and 11. Ifone has to work himself, do research, submit thesis etc., or if one is to leave his native place, remain in a hostel in the foreign land, leaving his kith and kin and enjoying new surroundings environments, one is to judge the houses 9 and 12 and to come out successful, 11".house significator should also be the significator of either 9" or 12" house or both.
 Here lagna is 3 42’ Scorpio. 9" house extends from 5 40'
 Cancer to 8 40’ Leo. Occupant is stronger than owner. According to K.P. occupant of a constellation is stronger than the lord of the constellation. Constellation is stronger than the sign. Occupant of a sign is stronger than the lord of the sign. Planets conjoined with or aspected by a planet gains the strength to offer those results which those planets signify. Thus a planet becomes the significator of a few matters. The source of the result is shown
clearly by the Bhava-house occupied by the planet and the house or houses which it owns (owner of a house means owner of the sign where the cusp or cusps of a bhava or bhavas fall).
 Rahu is the occupant of the 9" Bhava. Its constellations are
 Arudhra, Swathi and Sathabisha. Sun and Kethu are in Rahu’s star.
 Moon is the lord of the sign where 9" cusp falls. Rohini,
 Hastham and Sravanam are governed by Moon. Moon, Sani and Mercury are in Moon’s star.
 When so many planets indicate a result, it means that they are connected with this, 9" house results. If they happen to be the significator of 7" house also, it means, it is the 11" to the 9°. 9" house indicates the father of the native; hence the 7” house, which is the 11" to 9" indicates success in father’s attempts, cure from the disease and realisation of his ambition, other than what it denotes the native, i.e. to have a partner in life or to enter into a contract with another. Moon is in 7. It is in its own constellation. So Moon indicates 9" and 7" house matters. Saturn is in 7, Saturn is in Moon's star which occupies 7" house. So
 Saturn presages matters, signified by 7" and also the 9" house.
 Therefore during Moon and Saturn sub periods, not only the native will enjoy 7" and 9* house matters, but the native’s father will achieve his aim.
 As regards overseas, judge the house 12 as it promises, separation from family, living in new surroundings and environments. 12" house extends from 8 40” Libra to 3 40’
 Scorpio. Sun is deposited in the 12" house.
 Now one should remember that in everybody's horoscope there are the houses 3, 9 and 12. There must be few significators of 3, 9 and 12 at least two. Why? Any one planet may own the houses 3 and 12 or 9 and 12 and the other can own the third house. These two planets may not have any planet in their constellations and also no planet in these 3 Bhavas. Then only these two planets will be the owners and significators. When every individual have got at least 2 planets, why should not
everybody make long journeys, go overseas and stay in the foreign land during their conjoined periods and sub periods.
 Majority do not go overseas. Simply to satisfy themselves, just like what | did when | was very young, they can take a big world map, spread it on the ground. Then stand where Africa is shown.
 Say, lam in Africa. Take away the footsteps, keep them in Australia. map and say “I am now in Australia”. Lift your legs and keep where America is drawn. Say “lam now in America”. Thatis all.
 But the surrounding and environments remain the same. One can go only when the sub lord of the 12" cusp is connected in any manner with 3° or 9" house; preferably 9" house.
 In this chart, 12" cusp is in 8 40’ in Libra. The constellation is ruled by Rahu; the sub is also governed by Rahu. Rahu is in the 9" Bhava. If he would have been born one minute later, the sub lord will be Jupiter who is in the 8" Bhava (in his own constellation) which is Vyaya to the 9" house, in which case he cannot go overseas.
ff twins are born, one with Rahu as the sub lord of the 12" house cusp and the other twin with the sub lord of the 12" cusp as Jupiter, then even though
(1) The planets are in the same bhava (2) Dasa and Bhukti same (3) Ashtaka Varga same (4) Gochara same
 One enjoys and the other is disappointed.
 When two people have the same chart with less than 2 a degree differences in lagna position one is able to differentiate by applying K.P. As Rahu is the lord of the sub of the 12" cusp, this native will and must live in a foreign place.
 When Rahu is the occupant of the 9" house ‘in the constellation of Kethu in 3 it is connected with land journeys, and long journeys.
Hence this native has got the opportunity to go overseas.
 Now comes the question of finding out the time of event. It will be Rahu Dasa, Moon Bhurti, Saturn Anthra. Consider the ruling planets at the moment of judgement.
 Today it is Thursday. It is ruled by Jupiter. As anode — Rahu — representative Jupiter by occupying his sign, take Rahu Dasa.
 Now the lagna that is rising in the East is 12 30’. Itis Saturn's sign and Moon constellation as the time is 6-51 a.m. on Thursday 23-1-1969 at Madras. Hence Rahu acting as an agent of Jupiter,
 Saturn and Moon are the significators (star is also Uthrapadra where Moon transits and it is Jupiter sign Saturn star).
 Hence he will go overseas during Rahu Dasa, Moon Bhukti,
 Saturn Anthra, Third week April 1973.

- CHANGE IN JOB, 9™ HOUSE EXPLAINS
 Letter to author:
 Dear Professor Krishnamurti,
 Through the courtesy of my friend at New Delhi, you were kind enough to prepare my horoscope and predict that | will change jobs in November and move to a new location. This has come true and | have shifted.
 Yours faithfully, (Sd) SETH,
 Vienna.
- PROFESSION
in Jataka Parijata Vaidhyanatha Dikshita says:
 Count from Lagna or from the Moon sign and note which
 Planets occupy the tenth house. One can acquire wealth through father, if Sun is in the 10" house. Moon in 10 indicates wealth through mother: Mars shows that which he gains through foe.
Similarly Mercury through friend. Jupiter through brother; Venus through wife; Saturn through servants.
 Find out the lords of the 10" house counted from Lagna,
 Moon and Sun. judge the strongest of the lords. Note in which navamsa sign, the strongest of the lords of the 10" house is counted from Lagna, Sun or Moon. Then find out who rules the
 Navamsa sign. This lord is the indicator of the profession.”
 But Bhattotpala is of opinion that one should not make a selection among the lords of the 10" house counted from Lagna,
 Sun and Moon and among the occupants of the 10" house counted from Lagna and Moon sign. All must be taken for consideration.
 Sage Garga holds this view and Bhattotpala supports this.
 If the navamsa sign is owned by (a) Sun: medicine, wool, grass, water, grain, gold, pearls, respectable post under the government including ministers. (b) Moon: dealing in things derived from water, agriculture, earth, indulging in controversial matters, apparel etc.
(c) Mars: metallurgy, war, robber, using fire, daring action etc.
(d) Mercury: arts, poetry, astrology, vedas to recite mantras for the benefit of others, priests, etc.
(e) Jupiter: teacher, purohit, law etc.
(f) Venus: gold, ruby, elephants, horses, cattle, jaggery, cooked rice, salt, curdled milk, female, etc.
(g) Saturn: woodcutter; carpenter, servants, etc.
 Beneficial planets owning the Navamsa sign occupied by the lord of the 10" house in the Navamsa chart shows that the person will be beneficial to others. He will have authority. But malefic planets owning the Navamsa sign, indicates that the person is evil minded or a hard task-master and he has to serve another.
If the tenth house from Moon is occupied by (a) Sun: the person is successful in his enterprises. (b) Mars: he will be wicked and rash. (c) Mercury: he will be learned. (d) Jupiter: he will be royal. (e) Venus: he will be voluptuous. (f) Saturn: he will be pessimistic.
 Sun in conjunction with Mars
 He will be addicted to wine and women.
 Sun in conjunction with Mercury
 Astrology, valuable articles obtained from liquids, ladies and jewels.
 Sun in conjunction with Jupiter
 Respected by Government.
 Sun in conjunction with Venus
 Favour from Government, wife with good wealth.
 Sun in conjunction with Saturn
 He will be depressed and dejected.
 Mars in conjunction with Mercury
 He will be a scientist.
 Mars in conjunction with Jupiter
 He will dominate over others.
 Mars in conjunction with Venus
 Foreign trade.
Mars in conjunction with Saturn
 Bold action. Fearless job.
 Mercury in conjunction with Jupiter
 He will be famous and favoured by Government.
 Mercury in conjunction with Venus
 He will be learned and will earn wealth.
 Mercury in conjunction with Saturn
 He will be copyist, dirty job.
 Jupiter in conjunction with Venus
 He will be helpful to good-natured people, respected by
 Government and learned.
 Jupiter in conjunction with Saturn
 Mischief monger, promoter of quarrels.
 Venus in conjunction with Saturn
 He will manufacture fragrant powder, cosmetics, will practise medicine and do business.
 If Mars and lord of the 4" house are in 1, 4,5, 7,9, 100r11" house and if the lord of the tenth house is conjoined with or aspected by, Venus and Moon, the person will have cattle and will attend to agriculture.
 Thus, an ideais given by Vaidyanatha Dikshita in Jataka Parijata.
 Let us refer Mantraeswara’s Phala Deepika. He also advocates to note the lord of the navamsa occupied by the strongest of the planets owning the 10" house counted from
 Lagna, Moon and Sun. if the lord were to be.
 Sun: Fruit trees, Mantras, by fraudulent action or by gambling, by speaking untruth, dealing in wool, medicine, metals,
 Government service. or service under some noble person.
Moon: Business, pearls, corals, agriculture, cattle, farming, pilgirimage, serving a damsel, textiles.
 Mars: Metals, Miltary service, cooking, agriculture, gold, troubling or black - Mailing others, weapons, bold actions, wicket company, spy, theif.
 Mercury: poet, reader, clerk, magician, astrologer, vedanthi, priest etc,
 Jupiter: Favour from good people, Government service, reciting mantras and Puranas, studying sastras, money-lending,
 Law.
 Venus: Women, cows, buffaloes, elephants, horse, dance, silver, scents, silk, milk, jewels, Aid de-Camp, Kavi.
 Saturn: fruits, labour, serving with low morality, bad grains, cooly, dirty jobs, sculpture, carpenter, butcher, etc.
 The Place of acquiring wealth is indicated by the sign representing the tenth house or the navamsa sign occupied by the ruler of the 10" house.
 A person can make money in his own place if the 10" sign is occupied by its owner or at least aspected by him. If the lord of the 10" rasi occupies in Navamsa, a fixed sign he earns in his own place. If this navamsa sign receives aspect from planets other than the owner, the native will earn money in a foreign place.
 If we take a twin birth, we find one looks alter agriculture and remains in the village, whereas the other roams about and like a rolling stone does a variety of service and never stays in one place.
 Take another twin birth were the Lagna, the position of Sun and Moon should be the same for both. The lord of the 10" house would also be the same. The Navamsa sign occupied by it would also be the same. Yet, one is a very famous medical practitioner remaining in his own residence and making money, whereas the other twin brother is an advocate, an orator, a vice cnancellor, an educationist and an industrialist moving from one
place to another and earning in all places which he visits and wherever he stays.
 Let us take another twins birth at Delhi. One is a Government official and the other is a speculative businessman.
 Suppose the parents of the twins show both the horoscopes, how will you predict:
(a) in which college-medical, engineering, arts or technical, they will get admission?
(b) which profession they will have?
 Mind you, there is no choice for the individual. Planets portray. They promise whatever they presage. That alone will happen. When one is doubtful because he himself is not sure of anything, one may offer advice and say that he may study medicine. But if the boy is keen; he may join engineering; if he does not like either, put him in arts college. But if you follow the principles propounded by Krishnamurti, you can predict only that which is to happen. Elimination is easy. Fixation is simple. Rules are very clear. Result is correct. No laborious calculation for days is needed on one horoscope. It is after all a matter of a few minutes.
    - Krishnamurti Padhadhati
 Let me state very very briefly the combinations etc., to fix a profession. It will give the readers an idea about the method.
1. Study what each sign indicates e.g.
 Aries: Police, Defence, Military, Industry, Land Brick kiln,
 Soldiers, Surgeons, Chemists, those who deal in metals, iron, steel, etc., butchers, barbers, cooks, those who use sharp instruments, etc., (These details are available to the student in the first Reader).
2. Understand what each planet denotes, as for instance - .
Jupiter: Law, administration, religion, finance, education, physician, judge, political career, production, expansion.
 Venus: Music, art, paint, poet, actor, union, flower, scent, silk, milk, embroidery, fancy articles, costly ones, jewels, etc.
 Saturn: Land, property, mine, coal, lead, jail, cremation, burial ground, digger, watchman, cooly, etc. (The details are available to the students in the first Reader).
3. Now combine the Rasi and the planet. Aries-Mesha is tuled by Mars. In it there are 2 % stars. First is Aswini, ruled by
 Ketu. The second is Bharani governed by Venus. The third is
 Karthikai, lord of which is Sun. Hence, according to Krishnamurti
 Padhdhati suppose the meridian falls between 20° 6’ 40 “and 21° 53’ 20” then this area is in the sign Aries owned by Mars, in the star Bharani governed by Venus and the sub ruled by Jupiter.
 Therefore Mars, Venus and Jupiter indicate his profession.
 Suppose one is born with the meridian between 21° 53’ 20” and 24° 0’ in Aries, then Mars rules the sign, Venus the star and Saturn the sub. To note the position of meridian and the lords of the sign, star and sub will not take even a minute. You can invariably find that people working in Animal Husbandry or as a Judge will have some connection between Mars, Venus and Jupiter. Why?
 Venus and Mars indicate kama and strength and will to unite.
 Jupiter is the chief governor for progeny. So he will have something to do with Animal Husbandry or work as a veterinary doctor also. Mars indicates authority and power; Jupiter, law and Venus, assessment, Judgement, balancing the merits and demerits of the case. So he can be a Judge. But if the meridian is in the sub of Saturn, Mars-Venus-Saturn show that he works in a slaughter house or deals in skins and hides or manufactures shoes, etc., Why? Mars and Venus indicate “animals”. Saturn is called ‘yama’ the chief governor for slaughter. So he may work in a slaughter-house. Or Venus is for ‘Thejas’-skin (beauty),
 Saturn denotes the dead, Mars shows industry; an industry dealing in skins and hides.
Hence every point in the zodiac indicates a profession. 21° in Mesha-Aries shows Animal Husbandry. 22 in Mesha-Aries indicates slaughter house.
 When a twin is born, having their meridian in this manner it may appear funny when one is told that one of the twins would breed cattle while the other destroy them.
 Consider well! For both, the Lagna is the same. The positions of planets etc., do not change in the interval of 5 minutes between the time of birth of one child and the other. But look at the results.
 After fixing the meridian, consider in which position the significator of profession is. Suppose Sun is in 21° Aries, then he serves in a place where there is security of service as Sun is to give a steady life; it indicates maximum labour and minimum wages. He may be a Veterinary Surgeon, If Moon is in 21° Aries, then the light of Moon is modified by Mars, Venus and Jupiter.
 Therefore he may be a captain of a ship, as Moon indicates ocean,
 Venus the vehicle, Mars, to handle with authority and power,
 Jupiter to manage and administer. Or one who supplies water to animals. If Mercury is in 21°, Aries, the combination is Mercury,
 Mars, Venus and Jupiter, when he may be a building contractor,
 Sanitary Engineer or an Accountant or Clerk in Animal
 Husbandary or a Law Court-Selection of any of these depends onthe strength of a planet. Thus one is to take into consideration.
(a) Which planet signifies one’s profession; (b) in which sign, star and sub it is; (c) with which planet it is conjoined; or (d) by which planet it is aspected.
 Above all, note the dasa and Bhukti running.
 Never miss to find the position of the Dasa lord and Bhukti
 Jord.
 Aperson may be a teacher to start with, during Jupiter Bhukti.
 Then he may be a legal adviser in a company dealing with labour during Saturn, Mercury and Ketu, sub periods. Later he can be
taken as a Public Prosecutor in Venus sub period. Therefore, the sub periods indicate the changes and one should be careful while passing a judgement.
 Further one should apply the mind and se!cct the correct profession. As Aries represents the profession of a surgeon, a barber, butcher etc. can any one be merely following the tradition, simply repeat and recite the Sloka? Every one should know that a barber removes the hair (indicated by Saturn) bring back beauty (by Venus) using sharp instrument (Mars). A butcher is to kill (Saturn stronger than Venus) an animal (Venus) using a sharp instrument (Mars). A surgeon who is allowed to cut open the body, is expected not to kill the patient, but try to end his troubles and not his life. So a Surgeon should have Sun (for medical-
 Dhanvantry), and Mars (to use < sharp instrument). Therefore the area of the sub of Sun in Aswini star or Bharani star and
 Karthik star in Aries indicates surgeons. The sub of Saturn in
 Aswini or Bharani indicates butcher. The sub of Venus denotes a barber. See, how clear and convincing it is.
    - (PROFESSION (Combination of planets)
 The nature of profession has to be judged by taking into consideration, the strongest significator which promises entry into service or indicate independent business or adding something more to the existing business.
 Extensive research has been conducted by the intelligent students of the Modern Astrological Research Institute, Madras and it has been found possible for us to lay down certain grouping or combination of planets to determine one’s profession. The classification is given in brief;
Following is the horoscope of a person born on 19" March 1937 at 6.14 PM. at Madras:
 He is a surgeon practising in Bombay. Normally, when one tries to find out the profession of a person, he has to note (1) the planet occupying the 10" house and also the lord of the 10" house (2) the Navamsa signs occupied by them, (3) the lords of the Navamsa signs in which the occupant of the 10" house and the lord of the 10" house were, and (4) judge the profession signified by the lords of the Navamsa signs occupied by the occupant of the 10" house and the lord of the 10" house. This is the principle which is being generally followed but requiring correction by the application of Krishnamurti Padhdhati.
 According to K.P method — (a) one should note where exactly the meridian falls: (b) the lord of the sign the star and sub. Also take into account the planet very close to the meridian. The profession is indicated by the combination of these planets and the dasa lord in progress.
 Applying Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the meridian in Gemini 5 degrees, means that the sign is ruled tb’ Mercury, the star by
 Mars and sub by Sun. Therefore his m: 7 profession will be
indicated by Mercury, Mars and Sun. sun and Mercury give him the intelligence, quick understanding, grasp and because both of them were in a watery sign, correct intuition is indicated. One of the main occupations indicated by Sun is medicine. Mars is for Surgery and Mercury for quick action and also correct diagnosis. Hence from the position of the meridian, one can say that he is a Surgeon.
 The other alternative would be that Mars and Mercury indicate mechanical engineering, and Sun for service in the Government.
 Also one can predict that he may be serving in a Government
 Press, as Sun indicates Government, Mercury paper as communication and Mars Machinery. Thus a few avocations may be indicated by the combination of the lord of the sign, star and sub, where he had his meridian (10" Bhava). By applying
 Krishnamurti Padhdhati one can minimise the alternatives and determine the exact nature as disclosed by Sub lord.
10" house is occupied by Moon. Moon governs the stars
 Rohini, Hastham and Sravanam. No planet is found occupying any of the three stars. Therefore, Moon must be taken as one of the significators of profession. Consider what Moon can do. It is in the constellation of Mars and aspected by Mars and Jupiter (both are in their own signs and strong). Therefore, Moon is to offer the results of Mars and Jupiter. Mars and Scorpio suggest chemical or medical and Jupiter in Sun's constellation suggests medical. Mars in the constellation of Saturn and in Scorpio indicates that he will carry out post-mortem also as Saturn denotes the dead. Hence, the occupant Moon also promises that he will be Surgeon.
 But if we were to apply the general principle, the lord of the 10" house is Mercury. It occupies Cancer in Navamsa which is owned by Moon. Moon is posited in the 10" house and it is in
 Scorpio Navamsa. Therefore, the lords of Cancer and Scorpio (Moon and Mars) indicate the profession. Normally, one cannot expect Medical profession for the combination of Moon and Mars
as the rule is to find the lord of the navamsa sign and read out the profession in the traditional way.
    - LENGTH OF SERVICE
 Let us examine the following chart to determine the length of service.
 Balance of Moon Dasaat the time of birth is 6 years, 2 months, 26 days.
 Self-acquisition is judged from the houses 2, 6 and 10. So one has to consider the strength of the significators in the following order:
+. The planets in the constellation of the occupants of the houses 2, 6 or 10.
2. The occupant of these three houses 2, 6, or 10.
 The planets in the constellation of the lords of the houses 2, 6 and 10.
4. The lords of these houses, 5. The planets conjoined with the significators, and 6. Those receiving aspect from the significators.
 Before proceeding further, it is necessary to mention clearly what a Bhava-House is, and which planet is to be taken as the lord of a Bhava-House.
 A house commences from the cusp of a house and ends with the succeeding cusp. The cusp of the ascendant is 1° 00’. So the Lagna commences at 1° 00’ Cancer. The next
 Cusp falls at 26° 56’ cancer. Hence Lagna Bhava is ruled by
 Moon. It extends from 1° 00' to 26° 56’ in cancer. Further Moon is also the lord of the second house as the second cusp falls at 26°56’ cancer. The cusp of the 3" house is 25°56’ in Leo. Hence the 2 house extends from 26° 56' cancer to 25° 56’ Leo. Even though oniy 3°-4’ in Cancer happens to be in the second Bhava and 25° 56'is the extension of the second house in Leo owned by Sun, the lord of the second house for predicting finance, fortune etc. is Moon only.
 Further, the traditional method of erecting the Bhava Chakra - Chaleeth as it is called in North India - needs some consideration as it is misleading. Suppose one’s Lagna Bhava commences at 21° in Cancer and extends up to 20° in Leo; also presume that the planet ‘A’ was in 10° Cancer, the planet ‘B’ was in 25° Cancer and the planet ‘C’ in 10° Leo. In the chart which is erected by the Hindu astrologers in Bhava-Chakra, they show the planet ‘A’ in Gemini, and planets B and C in Cancer. It is misleading.
 No doubt planet ‘A’ is in the 12" Bhava. Planets B and C are in Lagna Bhava. To represent these clearly and correctly, it is advisable to follow the table as under.
In the above hoioscope, it will be seen that the second house
extends from 26° 56' in Cancer to 25° 56' in Leo and the second house is owned by Moon. The sixth Cusp commences from 1° 56' in Sagittarius and extends up to 1° in Capricorn and the 6"
house is governed by Jupiter. The Meridian, i.e., the Cusp of the
10" house falls at 27° 56' in Pisces, extends all the 30° of Aries
and ends at 0° 56' Taurus and the lord of the tenth house is Jupiter.
 No planet occupies any of the three houses 2,6 or 10. Hence there is no need to note the constellation ruled by the occupants
and also the planets occupying those constellations.
Therefore take the planets in the constellation of the lords of 2,60r 10. Moon rules the second house. Jupiter governs 6 and 10.
 Moon's stars are Rohini, Hastha and Sravana. Moon and
 Jupiter alone occupy Hastha.
 The stars of Jupiter are Punarvasu, Visaka and Poorvapathra.
 There is no planet in any of the three stars. Therefore, Moon and
 Jupiter are the significators.
 Nodes are stronger than the planets. Hence find out whether
 Rahu or Ketu occupies their houses or conjoin with them or receive aspects from either Moon or Jupiter. Then, they also will be the significators.
 Ketu is in Cancer in Moon's sign. So Ketu is stronger than
 Moon.
 Rahu receives the beneficial 5" aspect from Jupiter. Hence
 Rahu acquires the strength of Jupiter, other than what it has to offer, as an agent of Saturn, by occupying Capricorn owned by
 Saturn and also by receiving aspect (3") from Saturn.
 Moon and Jupiter, the significators, are in the third house, in a common sign showing that you will be having a transferable post.
 Moon and Jupiter indicate Departments of Finance,
 Education or Politics. The third house does not show Education.
 Generally the fifth house indicates Politics. Third house occupied by Moon and Jupiter in Mercury’s sign indicate short tour, transfer, inspection of accounts, auditing etc. Further, the Meridian was in Jupiter's sign, Mercury star, and Saturn sub. It is clear that the native will be a journalist, correspondent or working in the department of Finance.
 When was the first appointment?
 Find out the dasa that runs between the age of 16 and 30 to all persons, as, generally people enter service only then.
This native was running Rahu Dasa from the age of 13 years 2 months and 26 days, till 31 years, 2 months and 26 days.
 Itis found that Rahu and Ketu are the strongest significators.
 Hence the native ought to have entered service during Rahu Dasa,
 Ketu Bhukti, Ketu Anthra, or Rahu Anthra on the day when Moon was transiting in one of the 3 stars governed by Rahu, viz.,
 Arudhra, Swathi and Sathabhisa. Actually the native joined the
 Finance Department during Rahu Dasa, Ketu Bhukti, Ketu Anthra on Swathi star day. Viz., 6-9-1921.
 When he was running Jupiter Dasa, Saturn Bhukti, Mercury
 Anthra, he was selected and from Ketu Anthra promoted in 1932.
 For 9 months during the Bhukti ruled by Ketu in Jusiter Dasa, the native had a transfer with an additional allowance in 1936.
 Again during Jupiter Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Ketu Anthra the native was offered a special duty in the Central Board. During Jupiter
 Dasa, Sun Bhukti, Ketu Anthra, he was posted to a far off place. In 1955, the native retired once for all during Saturn Dasa, Sun Bhukti.
 In Saturn Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Ketu Anthra he set up practice.
 What next?
 This native was running Mercury Dasa from 16-2-64. Mercury
 Bhukti ended on 13-7-66 when the very favourable Ketu Bhukti started. Popular and prosperous Venus Bhukti followed Ketu’s period for 34 months from 10-7-67. Only from 10-5-70 Sun Bhukti commences. It is Sun which will give the native the mind to take rest and give up private practice.

- BUSINESS
 The main difference between business and service is that in business, there is speculation in income; it is unsteady; but in service, for honest people, not receiving bribery, the income is steady and it is once a month or a week or daily: for dishonest people plurality of income is shown and such a planet will have connection with Saturn, Mercury and dual siyn.
Sun is 7 shows steady business with a little fluctuation.
 Moon in 7 indicates change in the nature of business and income most unsteady. Even the business locality will be changed now and then.
 Mars in 7 shows impulsive action. In auction you may pay fancy price and lose ultimately. Indiscreet and rash action bring loss. You will start in a flash, to end in a crash.
 Mercury in 7 - speedy turn over, larger profits.
 Jupiter in 7 - honest, improves, expands, thrives.
 Venus in 7 - good luck, popularity.
 Saturn in 7 - very bad for business.
 Uranus and Neptune in 7 are not favourable.
 For partnership, judge the horoscopes of the partners for harmony, happiness, profit, luck, etc., just like it is done for marriage. Judge the 7" house. The above appears to be as advice. But one should know whether one will do business or not. Also one should understand how the above general rule is to be applied according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati. Planets in 7 in the constellation of lords of 2, 10 and 11 show success whereas whatever be the planet, if it is in the constellation of lord of 8 or 12, itis bad.
 Will it continue in service? Or will | take up business? ,
 An active and ambitious person who puts the above query was born at 7 PM. on 15-11-1933 a Poppy Day. His chart is furnished below:
 At the time of birth Ketu dasa Balance 2 yrs. 11 months 5 days.
- PROFESSION
 Judge the houses 2, 6 and 10: No planet is in 2 and 10:
 Mercury is in the 6" Bhava: Mercury's stars are Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi. No planet is in any of the 3 stars. Therefore take
 Mercury as the strongest significator.
 Lords of 2, 6 and 10 are Mercury, Venus and Saturn. Rahu is in Saturn's sign. Hence, take Mercury, Venus and Rahu as the 3 significators. 3, 9 and 12 indicate changes. Ketu and Moon in
 Ketu's constellation, conjoined with Ketu are in 3. Saturn is in 9 in the constellation of Moon. Therefore Moon, Saturn and Ketu show changes.
 Mercury, Venus and Rahu indicate that you will be attached to Sanitary Engineering or Public Health Engineering. You will be dissatisfied when Moon (a planet for changes, contemplation, planning and scheming)-dasa is on and dissatisfied when Saturn sub period operates. At the same time Saturn does not give
courage and confidence to kick off the job as it is in its own sign and the wavering Moon’s constellation, Sravana. Jupiter, lord of 11, aspecting Saturn shows that friends and benefactors will suggest and encourage you to entertain hopes. be optimistic especially when Jupiter Anthra rules. Immediately after Saturn
 Anthra, Mercury follows which is in the constellation of Saturn.
 Mercury in Mars sign gains courage though it is in the constellation of Saturn. Moon brings about change in career.
 Mercury creates chances. Mars fulfils his desire. Hence during
 Moon Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, Moon Anthra he will leave the service and during Moon Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, Mars Anthra he will start a business. Therefore he will leave the job in April 1969 in
 Ashlesha or Hastha Nakshatra day. He will take up business in
 May 1969 when Mrigasira star second half will be transited by
 Moon. Mercury, Venus and Rahu show that he will take up contract business connected with water supply fittings. Mercury in a watery sign and in Scorpio, as the 8" sign of the Zodiac and the 8" denotes lavatory, waste, squatting, etc. Does not 8" house indicate in the part of the body, rectum and anus. Therefore one should take that 8" house denotes water-closet.
 Therefore he will quit the job and do business. Mercury in7, in the constellation of lord of 10 and 11 is very good. Sub of
 Moon shows speculative income.
(General rules followed by Westerners:
 If the Meridian or tenth cusp falls in,
(1) a fiery sign-the person is ingenious, active, learns mechanism, bold and takes ventures,
(2) an airy sign - science, literary, agent, adviser, artist, reporter, publisher,
(3) watery sign-liquid, spirit, shipping, overseas,
(4) earthy sign-land, agriculture, building, mining, politics, business etc.,
(5) movable signs give ability, leader, pioneer, new, original and discoveries,
(6) fixed signs-perseverance, industrious, service-old, well established concerns, steadiness,
(7) common signs-broker, touring, agency, public commodities, etc., service preferred to business.
 Sri V.S. Ramaswamy, B.E.,
 Superintending Engineer, PW.D.,
 Parambikulam Project,
 Pollachi.
 To
 Mr. K.S. Krishnamurti
 Sub: Double event — Uncanny prediction
 Sir, | am wonderstruck at the exact prediction forecast by you regarding my Promotion as well as the Promotion of my son-in- law and | am extremely thankful to you.
| consulted you regarding my promotion matters in the first week of January 1966. At that time my name was considered for promotion to the post of Superintending Engineer from Executive
 Engineer and for some reason or the other the proposal was shelved and | did not see any reason for the case being reopened for consideration again. | was regular reader of your esteemed magazine “ASTROLOGY AND ATHRISHTA’ and it immediately struck me that you are the only person who could tell me exactly what was going to happen to me. | fixed up an appointment with you and met you. Sir, | was greatly pleased to hear from you that | will receive my order of promotion on 1-2-1966; and believe me exactly on that date | got my order. You also predicted that | would take charge on 3-3-1966 on Thursday and Punarvasu star day since | was running Rahu Dasa, Guru Bhukti. What an exactness in the date?
As regards my son-in-law, the prediction about my son-in- law’s promotion is discussed in the May 1966 issue of your esteemed magazine. Exactly as predicted, my son-in-law got a better job on a salary of Rs.1800/- plus allowance in an
 Engineering firm at Bombay in Sani Dasa soon after Mars Bhukti commenced. Sir, | am not able to contain myself and | am not able to express my feelings in words regarding the accuracy of your predictions. | do not know what more we require to prove the truth of KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI. Also as one learned in both the systems of Astrology - Western and Hindu — | find that none can predict the date of event so exactly, giving out satisfactory scientific explanations. | wish you, sir, a very long and prosperous life so that you may enrich the sublime science more and enlighten the public.
 Yours truly, (Sd.) V.S. Ramaswamy
    - ( PROFESSION: PRINCIPLE-K.P)
 In the Hindu Traditional Astrology, we take Brihat Jataka as the greatest authority and therefrom we quote and offer our
 Predictions. Then there are various books written by various authors and also so many translations with their comments. Let me reproduce that which is mentioned in the text-book Brihat
 Jataka as regards the acquisition of wealth.
 Count from the sign where your lagna falls or where Moon was. Find out the tenth sign counted from these two sings, if
 Moon is not in the lagna. If Sun occupies the 10" house counted from the lagna, sign or Moon sign then one gets wealth through father; if Moon is so deposited one gets from mother; if Mars, from foe; if Mercury from friend, if Jupiter from brother; if Venus wife; if Saturn through inferiors.
 The other rule is, note the ruler of the 10" house. Also find out in which navamsa sign it is deposited and not the owner of the navamsa sign in which lord of the 10" house is situated; You
should not forget to note that the 10" house that you have to count is from (a) Lagna sign, (b) Moon sign, (c) and the sign occupied by the Sun. Hence you have got three signs. So the tenth house will be three. The navamsa signs occupied by them will be three. The owners of the signs occupied by the three planets in rasi and in navamsa sign will be six. Then you should find out what the lord of the navamsa sign indicates.
 If Sun indicates then one will make money by dealing in grass, gold, wool, medicine and the like. If Moon is the lord of the sign then one will gain through agriculture, pearls, fish etc. If it is
 Mars, metallurgy, by violent actions, like fighting etc. If Venus one makes money by dealing in gems, silver and cows and buffaloes. If Saturn, one will do tiresome work, cooly in prison, dealing with criminals, etc. Again the author emphasises saying that a person does such a work as is indicated by the owner of the navamsa sign occupied by the lord of the 10" house.
 More or less in the same lines the other books written by
 Hindu sages give us the knowledge to ascertain one’s profession.
 Actually the text books are not helpful.
 Twins are born. One is a medical person and the other a lawyer, educationist. If we follow the tradition, you cannot answer. You must and must fail. But follow K.P and You get the real answer.
    - Note the Meridian i.e., the 10" Cusp:
 If the sub-lord of the Meridian is in the constellation of the nlanet in Aries, generally you are attached to the Army or military or Police or Fire-brigade or any such job. In the boundaries you can volunteer yourself to carry out the territorial work; otherwise you will be inclined to use the nature of Mars and metal indicated by Mars who is the lord of your sigh; that if you will manipulate with fire and also with metal, steel. Many butchers, barbers, surgeons, chemists, gum-makers, cutlers, engine-drivers, stokers, chauffeurs, smiths, cooks and all workers using sharp instrument or using fire are governed by the sign Aries. Therefore, you would have in anyone of the avocation.
Even though you are really one of the most able executive types, yet it is advisable that you leave the management to somebody else and you take up planning, scheming and putting through the same, because you never stop working till you get exhausted; and also you take up some other work while the previous one is half done. Therefore, you should be above the manager directing others to carry on your ideas. You should pioneer them. Do not think that other people cannot do the work as perfectly as you can. Leave some of your work to them and try to reduce your amount of work which you think that you should do yourself personally. If by chance, you are not the head of the show but you accept a subordinate post, there will be a tendency for you either to be insubordinate or to be undiplomatic with your higher officials. {f anyone would like to know your weakness then if you are given a subordinate position, your weakness will be brought to the front. You are really a leader to plan for new business and also apply your mind to produce more or extend the existing industry. You ability is more to contemplate, plan and scheme yourself; so leave the other work as regards administration, organisation, etc. to others. Be-A-Pioneer. You hate to apply for any clerical post or any secretarial post. You do not like to accept any routine work which you have to carry on for long number of hours. You do not partake in any other office affairs or strike or politics. If you are appointed as secretary in a branch office, you can shine better than in any other place. You are an able workcr. You grasp the work of the whole business gradually and it is sure that when time arises you will be able to tun the whole show singly if needed. A great defect in you is that while your work has been appreciated by the boss, you thereby gain the confidence and also influence. Slowly you develop such a mind to boss your boss. As an office manager you prove to be a good disciplinarian and also an able administrator. As a salesman you will never allow the customer to think for a minute but you wil! be going on talking so fast that the customer will be convinced and he will make purchases. No person can leave you without having some transactions with you. Any customer coming to your business shop will totally miss to buy what he
wanted to, but he will be carried away by your ability. You will thrust on him those to your gains and to his satisfaction. As an advertisement agent, you will prove to be an able Director. As a tailor, you will have new designs and you can command a good market. As adealer in instrumental music, you will find successful commercial artist and painter. You will be able to perform any duty far above average and satisfy the customer. You find that work keeps you always alive as you find the pleasure therein and you never get exhausted. You are a good mechanic, even any new machine handed over to you for repairs, will be handled by you, will set right whenever something goes wrong. You do not waste much time; you consider that there is no charm in returning an article or a tool or machinery, after delaying for a long time. You believe that speedy turnover and quick return will be most welcome to the customer; you know that it increases the number of customers. Some of you (unfortunate group) may take up an ordinary mechanic’s post or an operator's post in an industry. You may be most popular mechanic in that shop; but there can be no opportunity when your ability is recognised and appreciated by the top person. So you may not have your promotion when you expect it. You will prove to be unfit to hold any such subordinate post.
 If you take up medicine or engineering or law, you will shine.
 It is very important that you forget about your independence, authority and superiority complex. You cannot be very blunt and straight forward but you should develop diplomacy. Neither the customer nor the executive head of the department where you serve, cannot relish such an outspoken and blunt way of dealing with people. You should know how to move with others; be patient. You should be smiling and encouraging them, otherwise you cannot be a successful businessman. If you are tactful and diplomatic, you will be the leader among the surgeons or among the advocates or the engineers.
 If you take up the educational line you have got very good opportunities to show your abilities. You are best fitted to handle higher classes. You are capable of explaining things in a simple
way and demonstrate to them in the most impressive manner and give enough of practical instructions. You are not fit to coach up students who are dul, witted and very slow to grasp.
 If you take up independent business it is absolutely necessary to have either a partner or immediately next to you an assistant whe will be offering advice, now and then and whenever you go at top speed, he will retard it. You are so ambitious and also impulsive that you want to do all the work ina very short time. Is it possible to put all the eggs in one basket at one stroke? When you select the partner in business try to choose the good natured person who is patient and persevering.
 As a technician you will be very able to carry out the work in a stylish way. Even a barber can be a very capable person but his style in using the knife or the blade will threaten the customer.
 As a nurse, you will attend to the child or the patient patiently for some time but if you are irritated, then you will never hesitate to retort; normally this duty does not suit you but when once you have passed this stage and you continue to be a nurse then you will be the top most. As a housewife you should avoid to dominate and also to dictate; but cultivate modesty and whenever something is to be done, you put forth your suggestion in such a way that he thinks that the whole idea is his. This is the way how you have to get happiness through such a person who will be less strong minded than yourself. This is nothing but your tact and in a way without his knowledge, you fool him. You can have greater pleasure in this life if you prove yourself to be an excellent hostess by entertaining his higher officials and friends. Actually your independent nature and irritant temperament must vanish.
 You do not find much pleasure in moving with people and you do not want to go to society and waste your time, so you will be using your leisure time on useful hobby and in sports, to have health and peace.
 When many jobs are mentioned for one sign, how to select a few and thereby be useful to the querist.
You note the sub-lord of the meridian; the lord of the constellation in which it is and the lord of the sign. Then you are having three planets, i.e. the lord of the sub; its star lord and the sign lord. This combination gives correct clue. It eliminates many and guides to select a few.
 Aries: Lord is Mars. If the other two planets, i.e. lord of the sub and the constellation lord were to be.
(a) both Sun, then Government service, Defence department or surgical department.
(b) Sun and Moon: i.e. either Sun or Moon is the sub-lord and the other is the lord of constellation, Then Navy, Boiler feed,
 Steam engines, Nurse in the surgical wards.
(c) Sun and Mars: One who goes to the front during war,
 Military; Sun and Mars connected with Jupiter, Law and order,
 Police. Connected with Venus also, Traffic Police.
(d)Sun and Mercury: Postal, communication, telegram, telephone. If Jupiter is connected press and publicity, journalism.
 If Venus is also connected Radio, Mechanical Engineering, Works and Housing. (e) Sun and Jupiter: Education department. Even in Military,
 Military School, Law department, Judge, Religious Endowment
 Board, Finance department, Nationalised banks, Reserve Bank. (f) Sun and Venus: Transport, Air force, Music, Medicine,
 Chemical, Veterinary department; if Saturn is connected leather industry or birth control. If Jupiter is connected, animal husbandary. Saturn shows slaughter house, lethal chamber and cremation ground, burial ground.
(g) Sun and Saturn: mines, metals, coal, mine ores, jailers, sextons, grave diggers, watchmen, night duty.
(h) Moon and Mars: Navy, Sailors, dealing in petroleum products.
(i) Moon and Mercury: interpreters, secretaries, Marine engineers, messengers.
(j) Moon and Jupiter: Physicians, overseas bank, foreign exchange. (k) Moon and Venus: Painters, Milk dairy farm, Toilet makers, silk mercers, Tailors for woman, nurses, butlers, cooks. () Moon and Saturn: Excavation of wells, reinforcing the bund of the lakes, geologists, Petrol dealers, Oil Pumpsets, etc. (m) Mercury and Jupiter: Councilors, clergymen, advertising agents, Press, Accountants in Finance as bank. (n) Mercury and Venus: Music, Radio, Sanitary engineering, artists, automobile engineers. (0) Mercury and Saturn: Hand-writing experts, thumb impression experts, mine engineers, geologists. (p) Jupiter and Venus: Income-tax, Sales-tax, commercial- tax Judges, Law Court, Food Department. Agriculture, fertiliser. (q) Jupiter and Saturn: Philosophy department, politicians,
 Trustees especially for the money of the deceased. (r) Venus and Saturn: Leather, skins and hides, Slaughter house, Lethal Chamber, etc.
 For Rahu and Ketu, one is to note in which constellation it is
and then according to the lord of the constellation in which Rahu or Ketu were, one is to offer the prediction.
    - WHICH PROFESSION WILL SUIT ME? - K. P.
 To ascertain one’s profession note whether if the sub-lord of the meridian is SUN, and the Ascendant of the gentleman is
 Aries:- ( FOR ARIES-BORNS )
 If Sun is the significator of the first house and it is the sub- lord of the 10" cusp, then you will gain by your own efforts and
 Personal contacts. Your frank and outspoken nature will bring
you success in your matters. You will not depend on others to act on your behalf. You will prove to be a good organiser and administrator. If you are an advocate, appear in the court of law and do not entrust the job with your juniors. If you are a surgeon you do attend the patients personally. You understand the mind of the seniors and that of the colleagues and carry out your work efficiently and have harmony. You prefer to be independent and firm. As a doctor you will prove to be good for treating cerebral cases, Neuralgia, Coma and Head injuries. Avoid rash action.
 If Sun is the significator of the second house, you will be industrious and you gain money by your work, hard work and that too for long number of hours. You will deal in cash and you can serve in a bank in the currency exchange department. You are also best suited to be an auditor or cost accountant etc. As years pass on, you will be promoted as Director. You are good in collecting the public money for any cause. Your sincere work and earnestness will be amply rewarded. You will tind it to save much as you are generous and you find pleasure in social intercourse. It is good for trade and business. You will gain through investment and speculation.
 If Sun is the significator of the third house, you can be a good journalist. You can edit and publish books; or serve in the transport department or postal or telegraph or any other “communication departments. You will prove to be a good salesman. Clearing agency for shipping, supplies to transport and traffic departments or to serve in bus, tram, railway or in any press or paper mill will be advantageous. You can rise toa good position in the university by having the goodwill of the seniors.
 Your relatives and neighbours will contribute for your success.
 As a lawyer you can draft intelligently, contracts, agreements, notices, correspondence, etc. As a liar, you will be very clever in drafting false reports or writing anonymous letters. You can thrive as an ambassador or messenger or one to inspect the branches from the headquarters or to be a camp clerk or a tourist guide.
 Hence travel, transport, sport and drama are advantageous.
If the sub-lord of the 10" cusp is Sun and he is also the significator of the 4" house, you are best fitted to have your residential quarters and your office in the same building. You can own boarding and lodging house or manage them. You can prove yourself to be an expert in interior decoration. You can make fortune by being the broker for buildings, lands, estates,
 Cars, etc. Further you can manufacture such of those materials useful to furnish the house or for kitchen Purposes. You can gain through mother or her relatives and take them as partners.
 You can invest money on constructing living quarters as colonies, instead of building for office purpose. You can deal in real estates.
 If the sub-lord of the 10° cusp is Sun and it is the significator of the 5"" house, you can work in stock exchange or in any other speculative market; also you can work in Cinema-theatres, dramatic field and other places of amusements. You also can work in family planning. As a Doctor, you will specialise in
 Paediatrics; you, as a manufacturer, produce things, toys, etc. for the use of children. As an author of books you will be fortunate in publishing those useful for children. Also in love affairs and matters chiefly connected with every day life. As a teacher to young children, you will shine more than for adults. If Sun is strong you can become a cinema star. You can also invest and become famous. You can become the leader of the scouts.
 If Sun is the significator of the sixth house, you are best suited for the labour or public health department. 6" house gives the desire to serve all, especially those who are suffering from physical ailment or mental torture: You can have Promotions in service if you are attached to the medical relief in any concern.
 In a factory you can specialise in repairing instruments and tools and machines. You will prove to be a good agent in emigration department. Ina bank you prefer to be in the deposit department.
 Speculation will pay. Music opera and cinema can be a good source of income.
 If Sun is the significator of the 7" house, you are best fitted to be a peacemaker. You are invariably fair in your dealings.
You consider both the sides and do the justice. Therefore you can be a judge, or you can hold the post of a public relation officer or one to mediate between two enemies or an officer for arbitration. In the Government the best position for you is the
 Embassy. As a social worker you can undertake to bring about marriage among couples. You can work as a marriage broker. If you are an advocate, you gain by appearing for divorce cases, or of such crimes committed on the sexual side. You can manage with all in a friendly way so that you are the friend of all. As a doctor you gain through the other sex. One defect is that there can be loss by theft.
 If the sub-lord of the 10" cusp is also the significator of the 8" house you gain by partnership and legacy. You will have steady fortune after marriage. You work very hard and you do business using other's money. You can be an Executive Director.
 You may deal in public funds, pension papers, gratuity, bonus, taxes, etc. If you are an advocate you will deal in estates and wills. In Government service, Finance and Revenue departments are beneficial. As an independent person, you practice Income- tax and you are the best advisor. As an auditor you can make fortune. You can deal with the money of the dead and insurance.
 You may attend to death duty, estate duty, etc. Do not speculate.
lf Sun is the significator of the 9" house you are ever hopeful and charitable. You will have the desire to investigate science.
 As abusinessman you will make long tours and have connections with foreigners. Export, import, foreign trade and to have branches in the foreign are all advantageous. University is the best place for you. Service in religious places are also well suited.
 Make fortune in a foreign land. You can even permanently shift to foreign. You will reach a covetable position in any technical line of business. Branches in the foreign, will give you larger profits than all the business put together in your native land. You will develop taste for fine arts, handicrafts and science.
 If Sun is the significator of the 10" house you can manage and execute whatever you wish. You work hard for long period
and realise your ambition. You can plan and put through your schemes to a great magnitude. Though you do not meet with any disappointment, you will continue to be industrious. You can have a business of your own. You can deal with foreigners.
 Export and import will also pay you satisfactorily. In Government service you will have your legitimate improvement in status: your claim will never be ignored. You will have advancement in your career. You can reach top most rung of the ladder to which you are entitled to. In politics also you will hold a decent position commanding respect from others. In speculation or in theatrical field you will be successful with good gains.
 If Sun is the significator of the 11" house, one can be a successful politician and businessmen, as you will have lofty ambitions, desires and dignity and also many friends who are reliable and faithful and be the benefactors. Your colleagues will co-operate and they will never betray you. You can serve in clubs, societies, restaurants, lodging houses, so that you will have many opportunities to come in contact with new people and increase the number of friends. You will succeed in such a pursuit where you have to apply your mind and concentrate. You will show your inventive genius in every action of yours. You can be a legislator or ambassador or messenger or peace maker or arbitrator or a sportsman.
 If the sub-lord of the 10 cusp is sun and it is also the significator of the 12" house, then you will prefer to work singly, undisturbed in an unfrequented place. You can do your job successfully and most satisfactorily by avoiding the company of others. As an organiser you will instruct others politely and calmly.
 You will prefer to serve in Jails or Hospitals or Asylams. If you are an advocate you furnish all points to the senior and you remain behind the scene. You will have one tuitioned by you; and let him represent you. In an army, you remain in headquarters and give instructions to the people in the war front. If you start a factory, it will be away from the town and also the industrial estate.
 Invest on Government bonds to have steady gains than to take a tisk of buying other speculative shares. Speculation causes ruins.
 You will find pleasure through investigation of things of mysterious or research nature. You can carry on such a work without any body's knowledge and collect information. For secret activities you are best fitted.
 Thus one should know the sub-lord of the 10" cusp. Then to each lagna-born how that particular planet will behave and how his indications get changed according to the houses which it signifies.
 When the profession is in millions, to classify and group them into 9 alone is never helpful to querist. But in this method you can find that there are 249 cusps and each may be ruled by any of the 9 planets and each planet can be the significator of any of the 12 houses. Hence you have 249x9x12 classifications. It comes to nearly 26,892 divisions. This is the only proper method.
 One cannot commit all the 26,892 combinations. ‘But one should understand how it is analysed and then the result arrived at. If one understands the principle then it is easy to pinpoint.
- ( INDEPENDENT BUSINESS)
 The horoscope is as follows:
Sun dasa balance 2 years 10 months 1" days.
 On 11-5-1970, Jupiter, dasa has started.
 For business, judge houses 2, 7 and 10. The second house shows self-acquisition. The seventh denotes customers and partners. It gives good indication about the nature of the people with whom you will have to deal; houses 6 and 7 indicate those from whom you buy; 7 and 12 denote those to whom you sell.
 Further, one is to note the dasa period which one runs.
 Because in one period and sub period, one may be in service; in another subperiod in the same major period keep idle; in the third subperiod do business; in the next subperiod, have gains, in another lose and so on.
 Hence one is to note what each nlanet can contribute. Always consider the sublord.
 Western authors say that Saturn in the 7 house is not favourable to undertake any business. But according to
 Krishramurti Padhdhati Saturn sub occupied by lord of 7 or significator of 7 is disadvantageous for a successful business
 Opposition and loss in public affairs are threatened. Whethe: there is success or not, whether one will do business, is to be judged from the significator of 7 and the 7" cusp sublord. Mars gives one the courage to undertake. Mercury shows one’s tact, skill, ability and publicity. Venus indicates that due to his sweet smile, pleasing words and social success by being a Lion, a
 Rotary Club member, or Cosmopolitan Club member, or 2 member in any club or society, due to friendship and contact, one can be successful; if Venus is evil, it will spoil him due to such activities. Thus, for each planet according to its nature and disposition one is to judge how one can thrive or will meet witr loss and failure.
 Further, planets occupying earthy signs make a persor businesslike and care for material welfare by doing business. It the earthy sign happens to be 12 or 5 or 8, and the sublord of the 7" cusp is in 5 or 8 or 12 in the earthy sign, one loses. If the
significator of the 7" house is in the sub of a planet who is either by occupying the 5" house or deposited in the constellation of a planet in 5 or 8 or 12, winds up business due to loss.
 In this chart, 7" cusp is in 4-44’ in Pisces. It is in Saturn’s star and Saturn's sub. Further, Saturn is in earthy sign in 5 to the ascendant i.e. in 11 to 7.
 No planet is in 7. Lord of the sign in which 7® cusp falls is
 Jupiter. It is in the sub of Saturn in 5. Hence business is no good to this person.
 As neither the dasanath, nor the sublord is connected with
 Mars, this native will not have the courage to start a business.
“Neither there is opportunity, nor there can be success if he does independently the business” is the promise of the planets.
 This person will not do business.
 Since years, he wants to do — At the same time he is funky.
 Yet he has not started (K.S.K. 3-7-71)
- Music
 Music is an art. It has its own beauty. It directly appeals to one of the five senses, i.e. the sense of hearing. A musician changes the Rhythm and observes that the audience is much pleased. Also, the musician finds that the variations of the pitch is enjoyed by one who listens to it and who can follow it. Blending of notes in harmony is an art.
 In instrumental music, Rhythm is very essential, especially in stringed ones. But in wind instruments Nadaswaram, Flute etc. pitch adds beauty. It offers the power of melody. One can develop harmony very nicely in stringed instruments.
 According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, 5° house indicates whether one can learn music, one can appreciate music, one can become a musician or one hates music or one is reluctant.
1. If the sublord of the 5" cusp is deposited in the constellation of a planet situated in Leo or Aquarius, one will be a popular musician. Venus will also contribute for one’s grand success in the field of music.
2. Ifthe lord of the constellation in which the sublord of 5 is deposited is connected with Moon and Venus, one will have the taste for improving his talent in music. If it is connected with
 Venus and Mercury, one will be supremely intelligent even to compose songs for musicians. If it is also connected with Mars (.e. if these planets are the significators of 5" house.) one will be bold and never he or she will have stage fear. Much of Harmony is indicated by Neptune. In Krishnamurti Padhdhati we do not include Neptune. Yet if a planet, the significator of the 5" house, is conjoined with Neptune, then hie or she will render it with great harmony and will be able to present fine notes. For Thalam,
 Rhythm, Mercury should be predominant.
3. If the lord of the constellation in which the sublord of the 5" is posited, occupies either Gemini or Sagittarius, one can render the music to appeal to the senses of the audience.
4. Ifit were to occupy Cancer or Capricorn, one can simply enjoy music by hearing and Saturn will be predominant.
5. For changes in the Rhythm, the lord of the constellation in which the sublord of the 5" is situated, should be in Aries or
 Libra.
6. The pitch can be changed at appropriate time if the lord of the constellation in which the sublord of the 5" cusp is deposited is in Aries or Libra
7. Notes can be blended and harmony can be produced if that lord is tenanted in Virgo or Pisces.
 Music had its origin even in Vedic age. Sama Veda is rendered in such a melodious tune that it is said that Lord Siva, the Destroyer, could be pleased with reciting Sama Veda. (Notorious Ravana pleased Lord Siva only by reciting Sama
 Veda). It has got its own peculiar Rhythm, tune and melody.
Goddess Saraswathi is known as the only Goddess having the most melodious Veena held in her hands. Lord Krishna is known for His melodious tune in Flute which enthralled not only the Gopis but also all the creations of God.
 Even in Western countries there is a story that Muses instructed how to play the lyre which was obtained from Apollo and when he played, even the trees and the rocks on Olympus along with the wild beasts, enjoyed the music from his golden harp. When Thracian ladies killed him, Zeus kept the lyre in the heavens and the constellation is called ‘LYRA’.
 All these go to show that music was there in some form or the other from the very great antiquity.
 In history, the first significant period for music was that of
 David. His psalms were sung by groups of people wonderfully.
 It was about 1000 B.C. Later only around 1100 A.D. modern music had its origin in North. In the 585 B.C. Pythogoras found the inter-connection between the Rhythm of the music and the disposition of the planets. He created interest to study music and astronomy. Kepler developed his knowledge by musical parallels which led to his important three laws. Herschel was first a great musician, then only he become an astronomet. In
 Shakespeare's period only six notes were prevalent. In ‘The
 Taming of the Shrew’, Act Ill Scene |, he personifies the six notes.
 The astrologers then omitted Saturn and attributed each note to ‘one planet. They did not know Uranus and Neptune then. Further, the references made by Shakespeare about astrology in his own linne were not correct. One commits a mistake if one relies on it.
 Around 550 A.D. Boetius published a book on music which was the text book in English universities. Later Sebastian Bach developed the music in 1700 A.D. He was called the father of modern music. Mozart began to render music in a very enchanting manner and he started composing from his age of 9.
 In India the greatest flutist Mr. T. R. Mahalingam also proved himself to be a genius with great talent. None was born before
him and it is doubtful whether any one will be born after him. So also Mrs. M. S. Subbalakshmi had hypnotised the whole world by her gifted melodius tune and the scientific rendering of the music. It is only Mrs. M.S. Subbalakshmi who had pocketed innumerable Honour from various nationalities, and also given away most of the collections for improvement of Institutions.
 Nowadays Famous Radha Jayalakshmi are forward in the field and people leave even their urgent works to attend their concert.
 The greatest devotee of Sri Rama, Sri Thiagaraja was both a great musician and composer of songs of Lord Rama. Venkata
 Subbiah of Uthukuli and Shri Deekshadar are the other two devotees who have composed prayers. /
 Astrologically how to find out whether one will compose or ‘one will perform the music? There were people who had little as performer or any musical instrument or vocal but they had composed versions to be played by others. Such people had
 Strong Saturn as the significator of the 5" house. It must be connected with Mercury and hence the songs were dignified and scholarly. If Mars and Venus were also connected they can compose for dramas. Saturn, Venus and Mars were responsible to compose love songs (only kama) Jupiter helps one to compose prayers. Mercury assists to compose such ones useful for dance.
 So, musical composition is one part of the art whereas to execute it, is another. Most of the composers will be skilful artists who could play, whereas all musicians cannot compose.
[Astrologers can predict which variety of the instrument or vocal is suited to one. Astrologer may not be a musician but mostly be a talkative person as Mercury and Uranus will be
 Predominant in his chart for his profession. He will not allow the
 Consultant to talk. But the astrologer will talk and talk. A few astrologers alone can compose astrological Principles in poems and render it in melodious tune. But many traditional astrologers commit to memory the slokas and render them.]
- WHEN WILL I GET MY FIRST SALARY?
 Number given: 150 Place of judgment: 28°-38' N.
 Time: 7-30 A.M. Date : 14.08.1970
 Position of 12 cusps and the planets are tabulated below:
 Second house indicates receipt of money; it may be by any means: by drawing salary, by borrowing: by selling anything, etc.
 Sixth house denotes getting money by loan or loan repaid
by one who borrowed or by receiving one’s dues due to service rendered to another.
 Tenth house brings money by profession. Eleventh is the net profit - the gains.
 Second house is occupied by Moon; Venus is in the constellation of the occupant of the second house.
 Sixth house is occupied by Saturn. No planet is in its star.
 Tenth house is occupied by Mercury and Venus; Mars and
 Sun are in Mercury star; Mercury and Moon are in Venus star.
 Jupitor is owner of second house.
 Hence Venus, Moon, Saturn, Mercury, Mars, Sun and Jupitor are the Significators. Rahu acts as an agent of Saturn; Sun is represented by Kethu.
 Venus is in the sub of Rahu; Moon in the sub of Venus; Saturn in the Sub of Mars; Mercury in its own sub; Mars in its own sub;
 Sun in the sub of Jupiter, Jupitor in the sub of Moon.
 Venus, Mercury, Sun, Jupiter and Moon are the most fruitful one.
 RULING PLANETS (ON 14.08.70)
 Friday governed by Venus
 Moon's star lord Venus
 Rasi lord Jupiter
 Lagna lord Sun
 Lagna constellation lord Venus
 Hence consider Venus, Jupiter and Sun.
 None is retrograde, None in the constellation of retrograde planet.
 There are three sensitive points governed by the above. (a) Sun sign Venus star Jupiter sub 21° Leo. (b) Venus sign Jupiter star Sun sub 29° Libra. (c) Jupiter sign Venus star Sun sub 16° Sagittarius.
 Hence when the strongest fruitfui Significator of the luminaries
 Pass any or many of sensitive points, the matter fructifies. Further,
 Sun, lord of Lagna at the time of query, is lord of 10. Itis in the sub of Jupiter, lord of 2 in 11. Hence, take the transit of Sun.
Itis in the movable and fruitful sign. So, it will yield the result quickly. Hence out of the 3 sensitive points, it will pass through the first sensitive point on Monday 7" September, 1970. Sun will be in his own sign in Venus star Jupiter sub. Moon will be in
 Jupiter star.
 Therefore on 7-9-1970 he will receive his first salary.
[it is not uncommon that some are appointed or transferred and they are not sure of the date on which they will receive their salary.]
- (REINSTATEMENT IN SERVICE )
 At 10-28 PM. on 23-7-'70, a person asked saying “Sir, | have been placed under suspension from my service for more than two years. Please, tell me whether | shall be reinstated in my service or not; if so, when?”
“Give me a number within 249 please.”
“Take it as 145".
 The time, at the time of judgment was noted as 10-31 PM. on 23-7-'70. The lagna falls in Libra 29 -26'-40" with the number 145. And, the other cusps calculated as per rule of K.P.
 Balance of Saturn Dasa 3 yrs. 14 days as on 23-7-'70.
 PLANETARY CONDITIONS
 Planet & Bhava Constellation Lord + Sub Lord
 Sun (9) Saturn Mercury
 Moon (5) Saturn Rahu
 Mars (9) Saturn Venus
 Mercury (9) Mercury Rahu
 Jupiter (11) Mars Venus
 Venus (10) Venus Rahu
 Saturn (6) Sun Moon
 Rahu (4) Rahu Saturn
 Ketu (10) Ketu Saturn
 XI Cusp Sun Mercury
    - ANALYSIS OF THE HORARY CHART
 The moon indicates the mind of the consultant. Here Moon is posited in 5. The houses 5, 9, 1 indicate suspension, Thus the Moon has the relation with suspension of the consultant.
 Again, Moon is in the constellation of Saturn. The Saturn is posited in 6 and is aspected by the Jupiter posited in 11. The sub of Moon is Rahu which is aspected by the Venus and Jupiter.
 They are posited in 10 and 11 respectively. The houses 6, 10, 11 and 2 indicate promotion or reinstatement as per K.P. Hence the query is justified which related with the Question of reinstatement in the service as well.
The sub lord of the cusp of 11 is connected with any one of the houses 2, 6, 10 and 11 in any manner, the consultant will have the positive answer.
 Here Mercury is the sub lord of the 11" cusp. Mercury is conjoined with Sun and Mars, the lord of 10 and 6 respectively.
 Mercury is the sign lord of 11. The sub of Mercury is Rahu- tepresents Saturn as well as Venus and Jupiter by aspect and occupation. Saturn, Jupiter and Venus are posited in 6, 11 and 10 respectively.
 Hence, the consultant must have a positive answer and he must be successful in his attempt. Ultimately, he will be reinstated in his former position without any monetary loss.
 As such, it is declared that he would win the case of suspension ultimately and would be reinstated in his service in the former position with all his arrear payments.
 - REINSTATEMENT - WHEN ?
‘Judge the significators of the house 2, 6, 10 and 11 for promotion or reinstatement in service.” The reinstatement is a kind of promotion as it enhances the status of a person from the position of suspension; income also increases.
2™ House is vacant; lord is Mars. Jupiter is in Mars star, 6" house is occupied by Saturn. Sun, Moon and Mars are posited in Saturn star. Lord of 6 is Mars.
10" house is occupied by Ketu and Venus. Ketu and Venus are posited in their respective stars. Lord of 10 is Sun. Saturn is in Sun's star.
11" house is occupied by Jupiter. No one is in Jupiter star.
 Lord of 11 is Mercury. Mercury is its own star.
 Hence, all the planets have come under the list of
 Significators, except Rahu. But Rahu by aspect will also become a significator. Jupiter and Venus both aspect Rahu. Rahu is in the sign of Saturn.
When this position arises, our Gurujee has suggested to us to eliminate those which are not the ruling planets at the time of judgment.
 The ruling planets at the time of judgment are as follows:
 Rising lagna Pisces Lord Jupiter
 R/Lagna star U.P. Pada Lord Saturn
 Moon’s sign Pisces Lord Jupiter
 Moon's star U.P. Pada Lord Saturn
 Day Thursday Lord Jupiter
 Hence, take Jupiter and Saturn. As Rahu occupies Saturn sign and is aspected by Jupiter take Rahu as the strong significator with the above.
 Therefore, during the conjoined period of the above, the consultant will be reinstated without fail and the transit will agree.
 At present, the consultant is running Saturn dasa Rahu bhukti
 Sun anthra and it is upto 30-8-1970 (around) Sun is the constellation lord of 10-significs the 6 house matter. During this period, Saturn shookshma will start from 3-8-1970 will be upto 11-8-1970.
 Moon will transit Scorpio on 11-8-70 through Saturn star. Mars is the sign lord of 2 and 6, and signifies the 6" house matter. Its sub signifies the 10" house matter. Saturn is the dasa lord and is posited in the 6" house. On 10" August, Moon will transit in Venus sign Libra, (Venus is the sign lord of 1, 8 and 12) and in the star of
 Jupiter (posited in 11" house). Besides this, all other planets on 11-8-70 are in the sign or star of the significators of 2,6, 10 and 11.
 So, it is declared to him after the selection of the date. “Sir, don’t worry! You will be reinstated on 11-8-70", and you will rejoin duty on 11-8-70", “Sure, Sir” “Certainly”. “Thanks”.
Days passed on. On 10-8-70, in the evening, that very gentleman came and said, “Your prediction is very correct. | have received the reinstatement orders today. | have been asked to rejoin on 11-8-70".
- PHOTOGRAPHY
Can | do photography?
 Horoscope is as follows:-
 Rahu Dasa balance 10 years 9 months 10 days.
 Mercury Dasa starts on 6-9-69.
 Let us judge why he took photography. 10" cusp is in Venus star Jupiter sub. Venus, by nature, denotes photography.
 Prosperity depends on the period which is to run. If we analyse, Mercury (11" cusp sub lord) and its results, then one can know how the gains would be. Mercury is posited in the 8” house. It is in Saturn star Jupiter sub. Saturn is lord of 11 and
12. Itis in 7" house. It is exalted. Saturn shows that one will invest money (lord of 12 and no planet is in 12). Saturn as lord of 11 promises gains. It is in 7. So it threatens that you should not have any partner for any business. Because it is significator of 7 and also 12. Mars suggests independent venture. Saturn &
 Mars encourage your independant business and denote mixed results as Saturn owns the 11" and 12" houses. But in 11 Bhava
 Ketu is deposited. Venus alone is in Ketu stars. Hence Venus promises success and prosperity through the matters which
 Venus indicates. Photography is one of those which Venus indicates. Hence during Mercury Dasa, there will be speedy turnover, larger profits, satisfactory bank position, etc., and also during the sub periods of Saturn in duly, August 1983 some worry especially through Tax Department. Otherwise, the whole of
 Mercury Dasa from 6-9-69 is beneficial. Customers increase.
 You will appoint more assistants. You will not be in difficulty to get materials. Costly ones will be purchased by you during
 Mercury Dasa Venus Bhukti Saturn Anthra in November 1974.
 Expansion and improvement from November ig promised.
 Between 1969 and 1974 every year will show steady improvement.
 According to Western System Sun just progresses in 10" house. It will be there for 25 years more when name, reputation, prestige, prosperity in profession, etc. are promised.
 Moon by progression, now passes in 12" house, after 2 years
 Moon assures that Luck starts.
 According to transit, from 7 March, 1969, financial position will be good - photography will be your profession.
- TRANSFER
 Example - 1
 A lady puts a question about transfer and promotion of her husband. She furnishes her horoscope which is given below:
For transfer we have to consider houses 3, 9 and 12".
 Therefore for husband’s transfer, consider houses 3, 9 and 12 from 7" house, i.e.9", 3° and 6".
9° house: \tis vacant. Lord of 9" is Mars. No planet in any of the three stars of Mars. So take Mars. But Rahu is conjoined with Mars. So take Rahu and Ketu in the constellation Sathabisha of Rahu. Therefore Rahu and Ketu are significators.
3 house: \t is vacant. Lord of 3° is Venus. Mars is in Venus star. We have already discussed Mars.
6 house: It is vacant. Lord of 6" is Saturn. No planet in any of the three stars of Saturn. Take Saturn. Saturn’s sign is occupied by Ketu who is aspected by Saturn and in the sub of
 Saturn. Therefore take Ketu and Rahu, Moon and Mercury are in Magha ruled by Ketu.
Planet showing transfer are Rahu, Ketu, Saturn, Moon and
 Mercury. As Moon and Mercury are conjoined with Rahu, reject them and take Rahu. Therefore, Rahu, Saturn and Ketu are very strong significators.
 Sun Dasa (Sun is with Venus in the same sign) and Saturn
 Bhukti is on. Select Rahu Anthra and Ketu Shookshma. Ketu
 Anthra cannot be taken as Ketu is in Saturn’s sign and aspected by Saturn, a planet of delay.
 Dasa Bhukti = Anthra Period
 Sun Sat Sat 18" May to 12" July 1968
 Sun Sat Mercury 12" July to 1% Sept. 1968
 Sun Sat Ketu 1* Sept. to 20" Sept.1968
 Sun Sat Venus 20" Sept. to 17" Nov.1968
 Sun Sat Sun 17™ Nov. to 4" Dec.1968
 Sun Sat Moon 4" Dec. 1968 to 3¢ Jan.1969
 Sun Sat Mars 3° Jan.69 to 23 Jan. 1969
 Sun Sat Rahu 23°¢ Jan.1969 to 14”
 March 1969
 Rahu Anthra operates from 23" January 1969 to 14° March 1969. Ketu Shookshma rules between 23" Feb. 1969 to 27"
 February, 1969. Look at Sun’s transit. Sun on 19" February enters Saturn’s sign Rahu star. Select Ketu sub, i.e. on 27
 February, 1969. Sun will be in Saturn’s sign, Rahu star, Ketu sub. Moon will be in Mercury's sign Rahu star. Mars in Mar's sign, Saturn star. Saturn will travel in Mercury star, Saturn sub.
 Rahu will transit in Saturn star. So he will be transferred on 27"
 February 1969. As Rahu operating as Anthra lord, is conjoined with Mars, lord of 9" house which happens to be 3% from 7% (husband’s) he will be transferred to a place not far off. A short travel is shown.
For promotion take houses 2, 6, 10 and 11 from 7" house i.e., 8", 12", 4" and 5" from lagna of the lady.
8" house: It is vacant, Lord of 8" is Jupiter. Jupiter and
 Venus are in Punarvasu ruled by Jupiter. Jupiter is in its own sub and so gains strength. Take Jupiter and Venus.
12" house: Occupied by Sun. no planet in Sun’s star, Sun in Jupiter's sub. So take Sun: Sun's sign is occupied by Rahu:
 Take Rahu and Ketu in Rahu star: Rahu and Ketu, Sun are significators;
4" house: Owned by Mars. We have already discussed Mars; 5" house: Owned by Jupiter; We have discussed Jupiter.
 So significators are Jupiter, Venus, Rahu, Ketu, Sun.
 Sun Dasa Saturn Bhukti is going on. Saturn Bhukti lord is in constellation Rohini ruled by Moon owner of 12" house. So
 Saturn Bhukti will give promotion. We would have selected
 Jupiter's Anthra as Jupiter is very powerful in its own constellation and sub and aspecting 5" bhava. But Rahu a node is transiting in Pisces a sign ruled by Jupiter and hence whatever Jupiter has to give Rahu will give in his period. Therefore the period of transfer and promotion coincides and he will be promoted at the same time. As Rahu is in lagna, i.e. 7 house from 7" his immediate boss will be helping him in transfer
 EXAMPLE 2
 Horoscope is given in the next Page.
 Budha Dasa Balance 16 years 2 months 9 days.
 Moon Dasa started on 18-12-68.
 For transfer judge houses 3, 9 and 12 which includes change of residence also. They should be connected with house 6 or 10.
 If connected with 11" house, it shows increase in income and improvement in status.
 Third house is vacant. It is owned by Saturn; Pushya,
 Anuradha and Uthrapadra are governed by Saturn-Rahu is in
 Anuradha.
 Ninth house is occupied by Jupiter, Mars, Saturn and Venus.
 No planet is in Jupiter star. Mercury is in Mars star.
 Rahu is in Saturn star; Saturn and Venus are in Venus star.
 Rahuis in 12. No planetis in Rahu star. Rahu is the strongest.
 When majority of planets denote a particular matter, how to eliminate many and select those which will act. A matter may be indicated by any number of planets. That particular affair may be one which repeats now and then in one's life, just like birth of child, purchase of jewel, transfer, change of residence, journeys, etc. Then the significators at the moment of judgement clearly shows the immediate next repetition of the matter. In one's life birth and death alone happen only once. Other affairs repeat themselves according to one’s horoscope.
Today it is Tuesday, ruled by Mars. Lagna is in Cancer, owned by Moon, Star is Poorvapadra governed by Jupiter in whose sign, at the time of judgment, Rahu is deposited who represents Jupiter. Rasi is owned by Saturn. Hence Moon, Mars, Rahu, Jupiter and Saturn are the significators. lord of lagna is the strongest and his dasa is on.
 Lord of star represented by Rahu. So take Rahu Bhukti. Next select
 Jupiter, lord of the star, i.e., Jupiter Anthra, Saturn Shookshma is the last sub sub period (that it will be around 17" August, 1970.)
- (TERMINATION OF SERVICE? )
 Birth Details
 A Native - Male.
 Born on 18" July, 1922, Tuesday at 8-18' A.M. I.S.T. =8.28.4"
 A.M. L.M.T.
 Place - Lat. 24 48'N. Long. 85 01'E.
 K.P. Ayanamsa - 22 40',
 Nirayana Rasi Chart
Cusps Sign Deg. Min. Sign Cusps
 Ascendant Leo 12 11" Aquarius Vilth
 IInd Virgo 9 29' =~Pisces Vilith lIrd Libra 9 29' Aries IXth
 Vth Scorpio 11 29° Taurus Xth
 Vth Sagittarius 12 29 Gemini Xith
 Vith Capricom 13 29 Cancer Xilth
 Planets Star Sub
 Moon Ketu Mercury
 Mercury Rahu Mercury
 Venus Ketu Saturn
 Sun Jupiter Rahu
 Mars Mercury Mercury
 Jupiter Moon Mercury
 Saturn Sun Venus
 Rahu Moon Moon
 Ketu Saturn Sun
 For termination of service, the houses 1, 5, 9 & 12 are to be judged. The 1* house is negation of 2° (self-acquisition). The 5" is negation of 6" (service). The 9" is negation of 10" (status).
 The 12” is the general house of loss. Termination of service takes place under the conjoined period of the planets connected with these houses. The following Scientific Method is to be pursued uniformly to judge such a problem. Let us take up one by one.
 The 1* house is unoccupied. Its lord is Sun. In its constellation Saturn is posited. Therefore, Saturn is a strong significator.
 The 5" house is also unoccupied by any planet. Its lord is
 Jupiter. Sun is in Jupiter’s star, but it happens to be in the 11"
house - the house of gains. Jupiter being in the constellation of the Moon, lord of 12 and occupant of 9" is stronger than the Sun.
 The 9" house is occupied by the Moon. Rahu and Jupiter are in the constellation of the Moon. Mars, the lord of 9", in the constellation and sub of Mercury - lord of 2 and 11, isin 4and so only a feeble significator.
 The 12" house is occupied by Venus. Saturn is posited in the Sub of Venus. The Moon rules the 12” and is placed in the gt, Rahu and Jupiter, in the constellation of the Moon are stronger than the Moon, to give the effects of the 9" and 12” houses.
 The readers will be surprised to note that the significators discussed above conjointly brought about Termination of Service during Rahu Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti, Saturn Anthra, i.e., from 18-3- 1969 to 5-8-1969, The houses 1,5, 9 & 12, fully played their role.
 It is a sufficient proof of the efficacy of K.P.
- WHEN WILL I RETIRE?
 Horoscope is as follows:-
Rahu Dasa balance 6 years 3 months 2 days.
 Sir,
 Retirement from service shows permanently ceasing connection with the office in which you were hitherto employed and also a thorough change in one’s surroundings and environment. It includes, also change of one’s residence. This is applicable to Govt. Employees who surrender the quaotens allotted to them, after retirement. Therefore, the houses to be examined are 5 and 9 ie 12 (negation) to 6 and 10, ruling service and occupation, as well as the 3° house which is the 12" counted from 4. In your chart, 3 house is occupied by Rahu. Saturn and
 Moon are posited in Rahu’s constellation. The fifth house is unoccupied. Its owner is Jupiter, and Mercury alone is in Jupiter's constellation. The ninth house is occupied by Ketu with no other planet in its star. Thus, the significators are Saturn, Moon, Rahu,
 Mercury and Ketu. So in Mercury Dasa, Saturn Bhukti, and
 Mercury Anthra, when Sun, by transit, passes the position
6 occupied at birth by Mercury, i.e., around 20" November, 1970,
will cause your retirement.
 Jupiter, whose period you are now running, happens to be lord of 2 and is deposited in the constellation ruled by Mars, lord of 1 and 6 and hence has to benefit you financially which would not otherwise be the case if you were to retire. Jupiter in the constellation of lord of 6 (service) shows continuity in that respect.
 In fact, it is because of Mars connection you found yourself into the Navy - Mars occupying a watery sign and owning the 6" house aspects Saturn as well as the Moon (Mars-Moon: Navy).
 Further, in my experience, | have found that if two or three planets together indicate a department and also entering into service in youth, whenever their conjoined periods operate in future there will be definite improvement or change or retirement.
 In your case, the planets which are connected with houses 3, 5 and 9 are also connected with houses 6 and 2; because Rahu is to offer the results of the planet with which it is in conjunction or by which it is aspected. Rahu is not conjoined with any planet
but it is aspected by Mars who, by virtue of its governance over the 6t" house, denotes monetary gains as a result of service in departments connected with Army, Navy, Air Force, Police, etc.
 Rahu thus gains strength to indicate the 6" house results also. | am sure that, as in the case of many other people, the three planets - Saturn, Mercury and Moon which saw you entering service on 21-5-1941, will, in their conjoined period again (Saturn
 Bhukti, Mercury Dasa), indicate retirement.
 In traditional astrology, the rule is that planets which are in shasthashtama (quincunx or 150 degree aspect according to
 Western astrology) to each other, i.e., in 6 and 8 to each other, cannot offer desirable results whenever their conjoined periods operate. Actually, you entered service and also got married only when you were running Saturn Dasa, Mercury Bhukti, - the two planets which are in 6 and 8 to each other. Again, you were confirmed in the Commission when you run the bhukti of Venus which was in 6 to dasanatha Saturn. Another planet, Sun which is also in 6 to Saturn offered, in its bhukti, a voyage to a foreign country at the end of 1947. Also the same Sun’s period, before it ended, saw your promotion. Again, in traditional astrology, planets in the 8 house threaten untold miseries, but actually
 Saturn and Moon in 8 to your lagna which operated when you entered the Navy, again caused another promotion in December 1948 (Saturn Dasa, Moon Bhukti, Saturn Anthra). Has traditional astrology been helpful in explaining your events? You enjoyed diametrically opposite results.
 Since Mercury Dasa, Saturn Bhukti and Mercury Anthra is the period of retirement and Mercury is the lord of 8 and 11 houses, it shows that when one retires during Mercury Anthra one will have his accounts settled quickly and will get his accumulated provident fund, etc. no sooner after retirement date. (Mercury is a speedy planet and connected with accounts, etc.)
 In many cases, people having accumulated arrears during Saturn sub period have their arrears received or entangled money obtaining during Mercury sub period.
- REGAINING LOST POSITION AND RETIREMENT
 Time of birth was 5-45 PM. on 20" February, 1924 at 8 11’
 North and 77 29' East. The horoscope is as follows:-
 Ketu Dasa balance at the time of birth is exactly 4 years.
 Sir, The Query is to find out whether your seniority will be restored, ifso when? Or will you resign and leave the job, if so when?
 To regain one’s position, one has to judge the house 10 and 141, as 10° house indicates the position, fame, reputation and honour in profession and also the 11" shows one’s realisation of ambition. Both the houses are vacant. The lords of the cusps of the 10" and 11" are ruled by Mars and Venus. It will be surprising for you to note that | am taking your horoscope at a time when
 Bharani Nakshatra is on. It means Moon is transiting in Mars, sign and Venus star. Therefore the two planets which are to fulfil
your desire will be Mars and Venus. The other planet which will also contribute for your success will be the lord of the day and the lord of the lagna in which | am now dictating. Now the lagna is Kataka, ruled by Moon and the day is also ruled by Moon, being Monday. Therefore, one can boldly declare that you will have your desire fulfilled. You are running Mars Dasa, Ketu Bhukti upto 14" January, 1969. Mars Dasa, Venus Bhukti commences on the happy Pongal day of the Hindus. Moon sub period in
 Venus will be in April-May, 1969. | am sure that the day of order for regaining the lost position would be 3” May, 1969, when Sun transits in Bharani Nakshatra.
 According to this horoscope, there is no planet in Mars star, no planetin Venus star. Therefore, Mars and Venus are the two, who in their conjoined period, will do good. Nonode is conjoined with either of the two or occupying any of the four signs owned by those two planets. Therefore, it must come through and you must regain as the sub lords are favourable.
 Regarding the 2™ question, one has to find out when you will be running the period of the significators of the houses 1 »5andg9,
 Moon and Rahu are in 1. Mars aloneis in 5 and no planet is in 9.
 The lord of the 9" is Jupiter. Budha is in Moon's constellation.
 Sani and Ketu are also in Rahu's star, Guru's star is not occupied by any planet and Mars star is also not tenanted by any.
 Taking the ruling planet at the moment of judgment as lagna is in 2° of Cancer, you will retire from the service after the full term during Rahu Dasa, Budha Bukthi, Ketu Anthra, i.e. in 1979. Hence the question of resigning the present post during Mars Dasa or in the first half of Rahu Dasa is out of question.
- Time OF SANCTION OF PENSION)
 Even though one is entitled for pension from the time of retirement why there is delay in a few cases? Whose fault is it?
 Government or your action in the previous birth or your service in this birth!
A member puts this question within himself, after he has become dejected with the slow speed of the authorities concerned regarding the settlement of his pension. His horoscope and the facts are as under.
 Born on 1-11-1908, entered into service on 14-7-1927 and gave notice for retirement in June 1961 and retired on 19-9-1961.
 Pension is not yet settled. \ndeed, four years and three months have passed and the pensioner has waited for 51 long months in these costly days. Now, he puts the question ‘Whose fault is it?’
 The correct answer is his “Fate”. Why? When some are receiving their pension regularly and their accounts are settled around the time of retirement, if this person is put into inconvenience, what will a few philosophers and fatalists say except to confirm that he would have been working probably as an officer in his previous birth and he would not have paid in time either the salary or the pension to the servants, then. That is why, his delayed action in his previous birth, has caused this undue delay in this birth. This is the appropriate answer in accordance with Karma and Reincarnation Theory.
 In practical life, the above is for consolation. But the same can be explained by the astrologers applying the various principles of astrology.
The appointment was made when the person had been running Rahu Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti and Venus Anthra on 14-7-1927, on a Poorvashada star cay when Moon was transiting (though in the 12" sign) yet in the sign owned by Jupiter and the star governed by Venus, lord of the 10" house, indicating profession.
 The date of retirement came in Saturn Dasa, Mercury Bhukti,
 Venus Anthra, Rahu Shookshma, Mercury is the lord of 6, indicating service and is also lord of 9 (12" house to 10), i.e. retirement or leave.
 Now, when can he have his account settled? Saturn is lord of 1 and 2. Itis in its own constellation. It is strong and hence it can never deny; but, according to its nature it must delay.
 Generally for settlement of an account one has to scrutinize the houses 2 and 11. If it is pension, as it is concerned with benefit through service the 10" house also is to be included. The 2" house is not occupied, hut it is owned by Saturn. Saturn governs the three stars, Pushya, Anuradha and Uthrapathrapada. No other planet except Saturn occupies the constellation of Saturn.
 So, Saturn is a very strong indicator. Therefore, the astrologer can boldly declare that whatever may be the delay and however much it can throw obstacles, Saturn must give the full pension before its dasa is over as itis the lord of finance and it is beneficial for money matters. The total dasa period of Saturn is only 19 years and so far the pensioner has enjoyed nearly 8 1/2 years, and another 10 1/2 hopeful years alone are left over. As regards the 11" house, there is no planet, situated in the 11" bhava. But the node Ketu is in 11" house and the stars governed by Ketu are Aswini, Makam and Moolam; Ketu alone ‘is in Moolam. Ketu is a significator. Mars is the lord of the 11" cusp. It governs
 Mrigasirisha, Chitra and Dhanishta stars. Of the planets and the nodes posited in any group of constellations, the nodes are always stronger than the planets and therefore, Rahu in
 Mrigasirisha is to be taken. When the horoscope is scrutinised,
 Venus conjoined with Mars and aspected by Saturn and also in the constellation of Sun - representing the Government-shows that in Venus Bhukti itself, it will be settled and sanctioned.
Therefore, Saturn Dasa, Venus Bhukti and Rahu Anthra commencing on 12% December, 1965 shows that in its period of 171 days it will receive the attention of the authorities and will be disposed. Mostly the date of disposal would be in Ketu
 Shookshma. So, the pensioner gains confidence that he will have the pension between 10-3-66 and 18-3-66.
 According to transit, the so-called sade-sati i.e. the evil 7 1/2 years Saturn period will be coming to an end and Saturn, the dasanatha will be in Jupiter's star and Ketu sub. Jupiter will be transiting in the constellation of Mars and in the sub of Saturn which is the lord of 2" house. Venus, the bhukti lord, will conjoin with the Ascendant in direct motion and transit in Lagna Bhava.
 Therefore, astrology offers both peace of mind and also a consolation for the delay as well as the mind to live on hopes till 42-3-1966, when it will be sanctioned.
 Even here Saturn will play its role, 12" March iiappens to be a Saturday. What if? A second Saturday in the month of March.
 So, itis a holiday and hence one is to wait for next Monday. Now one may ask “Is not the lord of the star stronger than the lord of day”? Ifitis to be strictly followed, should not one find out where
 Moon will be transiting on that Saturday and note the lord of the star. “Oh God!” says the astrologer, leaning back on the easy chair - The star is Anuradha. It is governed again by the delaying
 Saturn. That is why probably, our ancestors have given Saturn, the last day of the week, to be governed by it. Otherwise, in the middle of the week, it may throw obstacles and cause difficulties.
 Saturn is a friend for people who are very slow and a foe for fair deal, If this paper moves slowly similar to Saturn in the Heavens it is only due to his Saturn Dasa and not the Government.
 He gathers courage and asks the astrologer “If my pension will be settled before this official year, then shall | get the increment due to me, when | was in service? The authorities regularly gave me increment in the same scale of pay for the same post held by me from September, 1955 till 1960. Only the increment for 1961 remains to be paid”.
The astrologer says within himself “I pity with you. God also hears your prayers. Authorities are reminded periodically. But what God or the Government can do, when your fate is so strong that the authorities cannot settle your account in these 51 months and another couple of months to come.
 At any rate, on the above date, Saturn will knock at your gate and say “Late is due to your fate”. Actually, the date of
 Sanction was 26-3-66.

# Politics
 Politics is not Poly Tricks played for one’s prosperity. But ita science of or a treatise on the organisation of a nation and execution of the policy after discussion for the welfare of the nation and not the native alone.
 As one is to live happily in this world and enjoy Ika Loka-
 Sukha-Venus, the chief governor for worldly pleasures is called one of the ministers of the celestial bodies.
 Since the uplift of the soul and Para-Lokha Sadhana are the ultimate aims, Jupiter, the karaka for these is said to be the chief minister of the celestial bodies. If a person is expected to be the representative of the public, Mercury, called winged messenger of God or agent, should indicate in one’s chart whether he will be a member, a councilor, a mayor, a minister and so on.
 As ministers are empowered with power and authority, Mars must be well placed and strong.
 As ministers hold the position of trust, Saturn also must be beneficially posited and strong.
 A politician needs mostly oration, convincing tactics, popularity and mainly fortune to come out successful.
 One can be a good orator, if Jupiter and Mercury are favourable and If Mars is auspicious then he can place befcre the public, the facts in meticulous detail, analyse and explain,
whether one is right or wrong, one will be capable of convincing the people and carry the mass with him.
 Vaidhyanatha Dikshita says in Jataka Parijatha that one can become a minister:
(1) If Sun, Mars, Mercury and Saturn are conjoined, the person will be a minister. (If you want to apply Krishnamurti
 Padhdhati Sun in Saturn sign, Mars star, Mercury sub or Mercury in Aquarius in Sun Sub, in Mars star, or in Anuradha star governed by Saturn, in Mars sign and the sub belonging to either Sun or
 Mercury at the time of birth makes one a minister in the period or sub period of the occupant).
(2) If Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn are conjoined in a House (not a sign) they make the person, a minister. [According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati Venus in Jupiter sign,
 Mercury star, Moon sub, aspected by Saturn by 3" aspect produces the above result: or Saturn in Mercury sign, Jupiter star, Moon sub aspected by Venus causes the above effect; or
 Saturn in Venus sign, Moon star, Venus sub aspected by Mercury etc. can give the above results. They need not be conjoined.
 What results are promised by conjunction will be produced by being situated in a position where the sign lord, star lord and sub lord are the same planets.]
(3) Jupiter in 9 contributes: aspect of Mars is also beneficial.
(4) Three planets in their own sign (Swakshetra) makes one a minister. He or she may be tactful, diplomatic and clever or cunning and hypocrate.
 In Sanketanidhi, Ramadayalu says that one becomes a minister even in youth, if lord of 5 is in 4. He will be honest. (Lord of 5 in the constellation of lord of 4 is good).
one a minister. So also Jypiter in 6, or Venus in 5, or Venus in 10
 In Horasara, Prithuyasas that Sun in the 6" house makes gives a lift to the person/to become a minister.
Also he says that when all the benefics are situated in 3 or 6 or 10 or 11 and the malefics in 1 or 10, one can become the chief minister.
 In Jataka dasa marga, Podumanni Chomadiri says that benefics in 6, 7 and 8 counted from the sign occupied by Moon, causing Chandra Adhiyoga makes one a minister. So also one _ born in Lagnadhiyoga will be benefitted.
 He also adds that lord of 10 in exaltation makes one a minister.
 Mantreswara in Phaladeepika mentions that Mercury makes one a good politician, The 5" house is to be judged to find out whether one can become a minister and also Jupiter, Sun and
 Moon.
 To become a minister or a politician, first of all, one should be lucky. One need not be rich to spend money on elections.
 One need not be educated much. Among ministers do not we see, engineers, doctors, lawyers, teachers, officials, business people, etc. Caste and creed do not count excepting in certain cases.
 As per Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Fortune to become a minister is to be judged as follows. Cusps of the Houses 1, 6, 9 and 10 should receive beneficial aspects. The occupants of those houses must be in the constellation of benefics by lordship and the sub is to be ruled by such benefics connected with houses 1, 6, 9, 10 and 11. House 1 shows that he enjoys the benefit. 6" house promises failure and loss to the opponent, thereby victory over enemies. 9" house is the bank position of the meritorious deed done in the previous birth, thereby there is the Bagya, the
 Providential help etc. 10" house indicates name, fame, reputation, popularity and profession. 11 house promises success in election, realisation of ambition and fulfilment of one’s desire.
 Thus one is to judge.
[How planets portray the ministers resigning with black mark, ministers re-entering service again, ministers resigning
honourably on a policy with prestige, ministers again called for to occupy a better position, changes in their portfolio, lift in rank, honest or otherwise will be discussed in my magazine Astrology and Athrishta.] 24 49'N 851'E
 Dated 6-12-1968.
 Dear Sir,
 Please refer to your letter dated 10-12-67 in reply to my letter dated 6-12-67 wherein you had written that “I will not be given ... ... ticket for Rajya Sabha Seat”. This proved to be correct. Is there any astrological indication of my getting any Political uplift in 1969?
 Yours sincerely, (Sd.) B. Prasad, M.A.

# (will POLITICS SUIT ME?)
 A young man with a keen aptitude for politics wants to know if he would be successful in political ventures. The numoer furnished by him for analysis is 206.
 The question is taken up for analysis at Lat. 16° 31' N and
 Long. 80° 39' E on 13-9-1969, 8.30 A.M. I.S.T.
 Since the querist has given number 206, the nirayana horary ascendant is the commencement of 206" sub of Krishnamurti
 Padhdhati. Hence the lagna is Capricorn 26° 6' 40". Adding 23° 20' being Krishnamurti ayanamsa for 1969, we find that the sayana ascendant is Aquarius 19° 26' 40". The other cusps are obtained from Raphael's Table of Houses as usual. The values given by
 Raphael are tropical. But, we work with sidereal (nirayana) values.
 Hence, from each of the sayana cusps, we must deduct
 Krishnamurti ayanamsa (23 20' for 1969). The following chart shows the different cusps and planetary positions at the moment of analysis.
Balance of Moon Dasa: 8 years; 6 months 5 days.
 Rahu represents... Saturn
 Ketu represents... Sun
 Planet & Bhava Star Lord Sub Lord
 Sun (7) Jupiter Venus
 Moon (8) Moon Rahu
 Mars (11) Ketu Venus
 Mercury (8) Moon Venus
 Jupiter (8) Moon Saturn
 Venus (6) Mercury Rahu
 Saturn (8) Venus Venus
 Rahu (1) Jupiter Venus
 Ketu (7) Jupiter Venus
(i) Sun-Ketu. (ii) Moon-Mercury-Jupiter-Uranus.
 The essential qualifications for a successful politicians are:
(a) He must be a good orator,
(b) He must be able to tactfully win over masses by meticulously placing before them facts and figures and explaining in detail,
(c) He must win public confidence;
(d) He should have an element of fortune to bless him with popularity and prosperity.
 Well-placed Jupiter, Mercury and Mars give oratory capabilities and Saturn gives positions of trust.
 For politics, the most auspicious houses are 1, 6, 9, 10 and 11. Why?
 Winning over rivals is indicated by house 6 because it is the 12" to 7", the rivals.
 Popularity and prosperity are to be read from houses 10 and 11.
 An element of fortune and benefits are shown in houses 1 and 9.
 Therefore, if Jupiter, Mercury, Mars and Saturn are strong and signify houses, 1, 6, 9, 10 and 11, either jointly or independently, then the querist will be a successful politician.
 Inthe present chart, Jupiter and Mercury are in conjunction,
 Jupiter owns 11 and Mercury owns 6. Both are in the constellation of Moon, lord of 7 in 8. This indicates victory of opponents.
 Lord of 10 Mars is in 11 and in the star of Ketu who is in 7.
 This shows popularity that gains.
Lord of 1, Saturn is in the star and sub of Venus, who owns 9 and is in 6. By this, the querist will win over his rivals by luck and will be benefitted.
 Lord of 9, Venus is in the star of Mercury in 6 anid sub of
 Rahu in 1 indicating gains to opponents.
 We therefore find that Mars and Saturn are well placed for politics, Jupiter and Mercury, though apparently well placed, do not promise success.
 Saturn signifies 1 (by lordship), 3 (by occupation), 6 and 9 (by position in Venus's star, who owns 9 and is in 6), So, houses 1, 6 and 9 are brought out by Saturn.
 Mars signifies 10 (by lordship), 11 (by occupation), 7 (by occupation of Kethu’s star), 6 and 9 (c‘/ a position in the star of
 Venus, who owns 9 and is in 6).
 So, Mars signifies houses 6, 9, 10 and 11.
 Mars and Saturn will bless the querist with success in politics.
 He can, therefore, go ahead confidently. But look! What is the dasa now running? It is Moon Dasa, Rahu Bhukti. Moon Dasa runs upto 18" March, 1978. Therefore, the querist should not be in haste. He should wait till that date in 1981.
 Whenever Mars and Saturn offer a result, it will be at a time when Sun transits Anuradha or Dhanishta star.

# Will | BE SELECTED AS A MINISTER
 A popular person, hoping to become a minister, anxiously puts the question “Will | be selected as a minister? | give number 37 for your analysis by Krishnamurti Padhdhati”.
 The question is taken up on 29-8-1969 at 9.20 A.M. IST at
 Lat. 16 31'N and Long. 80 39' E.
 Number 37 implies that the horary ascendant is Taurus 22° 40' on the nirayana zodiac. The sayana lagnais, therefore, Gemini 16° 0', since Krishnamurti ayanamsa for 1969 is 23 20'. From
Raphael's Tables of Houses, we find that the other sayana cusps at the Lat. 17 N are:
 Adding 6 signs to each of the above, we get the cusps for the other 6 houses. Since we require nirayana cusps, we should deduct 23° 20' from each of the above values. The following chart shows the complete horary nirayana map of the Heavens at the moment of analysis.
 Nirayana Horary Chart
 Planet & Bhava Star Lord Sub lord
 Sun (3) Kethu Mercury
 Moon (10) Saturn Mercury
 Mars (7) Mercury Mars
 Mercury (4) Sun Venus
 Jupiter (4) Moon Jupiter
 Venus (2) Saturn Mercury
 Saturn (11) (R) Venus Sun
 Rahu (10) Jupiter Venus
 Kethu (4) Sun Mars
Saturn  Rahu represents.
Sun Kethu represents.
 Analysis: - Moon in 10 in the star and sub of Saturn, lord of 9 and 10 in 11 shows the mind of the querist concentrated on political success.
 According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Jupiter, Mercury, Mars and Saturn signifying houses 1, 6, 9, 10, 11 indicate political prosperity and also ministership. .
 In the chart, lord of 1 and 6, Venus in 2 in the star of Saturn, lord of 9 and 10 in 11 and sub of Mercury, lord of 2 and 5 in 4.
 Hence Venus promises success.
 Lord of 11 Jupiter is in the star of Moon, who is occupant of 10 and sub of Jupiter himself. Jupiter therefore promises success.
 Saturn, lord of 9 and 10, is in 11 in the star of Venus, lord of 1 and 6 and sub of Sun, occupant of 3. So, Saturn provides positions of confidence.
 Mars owns 7 and 12 and is in 7. He is in the star of Mercury in 4 and sub of Mars himself. Therefore, Mars is not well placed for political prosperity.
 The meridian falls in the star of Rahu and sub of Saturn.
 Rahu is in Saturn’s sign and so represents Saturn. Since the sub lord of the 10" cusp, Saturn is retrograde, the result will be negative inspite of apparently favourable development.
 The querist need not entertain any hope of becoming a minister, even though he will enjoy popularity and prosperity.

# CHOICE OF FRIENDS (FRIEND OR FOE)
 By friendship, it does not mean, that everyone can expect something or other from the friend; either by his physical labour or correct advice or by assisting at the time when one needs.
 But a person is to be considered as a friend -
(1) if he never thinks evil never does harm or be observing the mischievous action of the evil-doers, though he may not connive at it,
(2) if he gives moral support and acts as an intelligent minister;
(3) if possible, lend assistance when one demands or needs it.
 One is a real and useful friend if he understands the situation of a person and helps the person to fulfil his desire.
 Asirologically, 11" house indicates realisation of one’s ambition. It also denotes elder brother, real friends, permanent friends, one’s gains or the assistance received by one.
(1) If lord of 11 is in the constellation and sublord of 1, 2, 3, 6, 10 or 11, that person will have friendship with one who will be helpful.
(2) If lord of 11 is in the constellation and sub of planets signifying the matters of a houses 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 or 12, the person be a loser through his friend. Lord of 11 or planet signifying 11" house matters in the sub of 1 denotes sincere and permanent friend who will materially help. Lord of 11 or planet signifying 11" house matters in the constellation of lord of 2 or sub of 2 indicate that one can make money and gain through friends.
 Some will give encouragement by offering mental solace while the person is depressed and in many words give the person confidence. Lord of 11 or planet connected with 11" house matters in the constellation of lord of 3 or sub of 3, give chance to make friends during short journey or by correspondence and
it may be for a short time. If lord of 3 is also lord of 12, then this ~person, on a later date will prove to be a scoundrel, cheat and secret enemy. Never talk to such rogues. In weak moment if you hint anything they will build up, give shape to it and either write anonymous letters or betray the person.
 A person born in Cancer Lagna, had his Venus in Revathi constellation ruled by lord of 3 and 12. He had a friend born in
 Virgo owned by Mercury. The friend knowing every secret of the person gave information at such a time that the person was arrested a couple of hours before his daughter's wedding, when there was a large gathering. This scoundrel did not attend the marriage. Hence those who are born in Cancer or Capricorn should never make friendship with those whose ruling planets are Mercury and Jupiter, respectively. If lord of 11 or significator of 11" house matters were to be in the constellation of lord of 4 and 9, do not make friendship with those whose ruling planets are the lords of 4 and 9. Such friends are for taking money and material and never remaining grateful.
 If it were to be in the constellation of lord of 5, you will always lose, the so-called friend will ever gain. It is very true, if lord of 5 is also lord of 8 or 12. This is invariably true for Gemini borns who will ever lose through friends born in Venus constellation, so also Sagittarius-born through those born in Mars constellation; similarly Aquarius-borns lose through those whose ruling planet is Mercury; Leo borns lose through Jupiterians. If it were to be in the constellation of the lord of 6, he never loses: the native gains.
 The friend gives and the native receives. Suppose you are weak minded and you want to play cards. You play with such people who are born in that constellation, lord of which is the lord of either 1 or 2 or 3 or 6 or 10 of 11. You will win. But if you play with those born in that star (Nakshathre) lord of which rules the houses 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, or 12 in your chart you have to lose.
 If the lord of 11, or planet signifying 11" house is in the constellation of lord of 7 or 8 or 9, you cannot rely on him. He will be time-serving.
Lord of 11 in the constellation of lord of 10, most helpful and faithful friends. Reputation, honour, and prestige will be on the increase. Such persons born in the constellation of lord of 10 will be a good propagandist to make the person popular.
 Lord of 11 in its own constellation brings permanent friends who are very useful.
 Lord of 11 in the constellation of lord of 12 is dangerous.
 Never rely on persons born in the constellation of lord of 12.
 They are your secret enemies. They cannot but be silly towards you. They will behave as though they are low-born and ill-bred.
 They will talk pleasantly but be planning to do harm. Never allow them inside. Stop them near the gate. Talk and send them away.
 They do not deserve a better treatment from you.
 Generally one can have good friends if lord of Lagna and lord of 11 form good aspects. Planets forming adverse aspects with lord of Lagna show that people born with those planets as their ruling planets cannot be good friends.
 Malefics in the constellation of lord of 12 threaten that those born in their constellation can never be a faithful friend. Ketu in 11 is also not auspicious. Cheating will be the motto.
 Benefics in the constellation of lord of 12 indicate expenses with pleasure or purchases or investment. Planets in the constellation of lord of 12 (benefics) show pleasant expenses, buying materials or investing on lands, building, business, etc.
 But if lord of 12 is a malefic and a planet is in its constellation whichever house the planet may own or occupy, the ultimate result is loss.
 If lord of 3 is in the constellation of lord of 12, the loss or waste or anxiety or secret inimical activity will be through neighbours or cousins or while making a short journey or by editing publishing, etc.
 If lord of 4 is in the constellation of lord of 12, the loss may be through mother, conveyance, change of residence, building, failure in education etc. if it is lord of 5, loss may be through visitors, companions, music or musicians or children or through speculation or pleasurable pursuits.
c" house lord denotes loss due to disease;
7" house lord denotes loss through litigation, partner, wife or husband;
8" house lord denotes loss by repaying prohibitive interest on the money borrowed.
 Lord of 9 indicates expenses through strangers, father, long journey, high studies, etc. Father himself may prove to be untrue to the person especially when lord of 9 is also lord of 12. A friend of mine is born in Libra. Lord of 9 Mercury owns the 12" house also. Saturn was in Ashlesha ruled by Mercury. During
 Saturn dasa, Mercury Bhukti, his father gave away his possessions to another son and did not give anything to my friend.
 Lord of 10 shows change in service: illegal gratification given for promotion. Lord of 11 in the constellation of lord of 12 indicates loss through elder brother or friend or son-in-law or daughter-in-law.
 If lord of 12 is stronger than lord of 1 or 11, the secret enemy is more powerful.
 If lord of 7 is stronger than lord of Lagna, opponent is powerful.
 If lord of 1, 2, 6 and 11 are stronger than lords of 7,8, 12 and 5, the native ever gains, wins the litigation, comes out victorious in election, passes through competitive examination, wins in competition, etc.

# (GIVING OR RECEIVING)
says that a person will give gifts liberally if Moon is in 7" Bhava.
 But | say that planet in the constellation of Moon when Moon is in 7 or when it owns the 7" house, will give opportunities to the person to donate liberally during the period and subperiod of such planets.
 Similarly, Mercury in the 10° house shows that the person liberally gives gifts.
 Sun, Venus and Jupiter conjoined in any house show that the person will offer gifts.
 People born in Punarvasu give gifts beyond their capacity.
 Moon in Gemini is favourable to offer gifts. Also people born having their Lagna in in Virgo Navamsa will be liberal in gifts.
(Mahadev: Jataka Tatwa says that
1. If lord of 9 aspects Mercury in exaltation in 11 or ina
 Kendra one gives liberally. 2. Lord of 9 in exaltation and also aspected by a benefic. 3. Lord of Lagna in a Kendra and lord of 9 in 1 or aspecting Lagna. 4. Lord of 9 in Simhasanamsa aspected by lords of 1 and 10. 5. Lord of 9 in good Varga, aspected by Jupiter and lord of Lagna aspected by Venus. 6. Lord of 9 in 4, lord of 10 in Kendra, lord of 12, aspected by Jupiter gives rich presents (Donates landed property gives away building). 7. Lords of 1 and 2 in mutual exchange-liberal in gifts.
a 8. Jupiter in the Navamsa sign occupied by Atmakara.
9, Jupiter in 1 or § and Moon in 10.
suggests that one is to judge gifts from 7" house. Saturn indicates receipts of gifts; but 5" house indicates feeding others; gift for people affected by natural catastrophe.
(Vaidyanatha in Jataka Parijata says
 Jupiter in the second house, or
 Moon in 9 or fin one’s horoscope, 5 planets occupy their own sign, or
 If one is born during cool season, winter, giving or accepting.

# Accepting Gifts
1. If the planet signifying the 10 house matters were to be in Navamsa either in Sagittarius or Pisces, one has his living by accepting gifts. 2. Lord of Lagna strong in 11 and aspected by lords of 9 and 10. 3. Lord of 5 in 9, lord of 9 in 10 and aspected by lord of Lagna. 4. Lord of 9 ina Kendra or Kona and aspected by lord of 10.
 Gifts according to Westerners
 Are to be judged from the 8" house.
 According to me
 Receipts are judged from the houses, 2, 3, 6 and 11: giving away is to be judged from the houses 8, 9, 12 and 5.
 Second house indicates increase in bank position. Third house shows Sahaya (assistance, help etc.) from others
(represented by 7" house). Sixth house denotes parting away by the person who gives and 11" house is the gains. 7" house shows one who receives or one who gives i.e. a transaction done with another: the person with whom one transacts.
 Therefore houses 2, 3, 6 and 11 counted from the 7" indicate the benefit to the other, i.e. giving the gift to another. Therefore houses 8, 9, 12 and 5 indicate giving the gift.
 Rule is ever universal to find out the significato;s: (1) The strongest significator is that planet which is situated in the constellation of the occupants of the houses 2, 3, 6 or 11. (2) If none, the occupants of these houses. Their strength is less than those in their constellations. (8) The planets in the constellation of the lords of these houses. (4) The lords of these houses. (5) Planets conjoined with or aspected by them. All these give opportunities to give gifts. The strength is to be judged in the above manner.
 Similarly, planets connected with houses 8, 9, 12 and 5 indicate the gift one gives.
# (IMPRISONMENT)
 Hindu sages give various condition under which one will be imprisoned.
 Ganesa, son of the.artist Gopal and grandson of Kanhajee, the
 Court astrologer in Gujarat, in Jataka Alankara says that a person will be imprisoned if all the malefics are posited in 2, 5, 9 and 12.
 If the Lagna is Aries or Taurus or Sagittarius he will suffer rigorous imprisonment.
 Mahadeva in Jataka Tatwa gives the same rulings. He adds that persons born in Scorpio having malefics in 2 & 12 and 5&9 will be kept in cellars. If malefics are in 2 and 12, also 5 and 9 to
 Aries, Gemini, Virgo and Libra-borns they will be put in fetters.
 Cancer, Capricorn and Pisces-born will be kept in a fort without fetters if the Lagna is hemmed between malefics, occupying 2 and 12, and also forming trine aspect to Lagna from 5 and 9 i.e. they will be not tied over the legs or chained.
 If lords of 1 and 6 are conjoined with Saturn in a Kendra (1, 4,7 or 10) or in a Kona (1 or 5 or 9) one will be imprisoned. In
 Brihat Jataka Varahamihira says that a man will be lathi charged and imprisoned if Saturn is in Scorpio.
 Vaidyanadha Dikshitha in Jataka Parjjata mentions that one will suffer imprisonment during the period of the Chakradasa of the 6" rasi.
 Kalidas in Uthra Kalamitra says that one is to judge imprisonment from 12" house.
 Ramadayalu in the Sanketanidhi says that a person will commit murder and undergo imprisonment if Venus is in 2, Moon in 1, Sun and Mercury in 12 and Rahu in 5. He also suggests that one should judge the houses 6 and 12 for imprisonment.
 Thus these authors are of opinion that 12° house signifies imprisonment; 5, 6, 8 and 9" houses are also to be judged.
 The scientific explanations for imprisonments and how to judge according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati are given below : -
 Will | ever go to Jail? If so, what is the duration? When I will be released? Will | be imprisoned off and on? Why?
 Imprisonment includes separation from the family not to have free moment: to be confined within 4 walls; change of residence and bedding: no Suka Sayana.
2"? house shows life with the members of family.
 Restrictions in the movement are indicated by the 12" house.
 Change of residence: 3 and 12. Bedding: Desirable or undesirable, 12" house.
Therefore malefics occupying the constellation of the pianets situated in the houses 2 and 12, occupants of these two houses owning evil houses, evil planets in the constellation of the lords of these houses, and lords of these bhavas threaten imprisonment.
 If lord of 1 is also connected with any of these, one courts imprisonment.
 If lord of 6 is connected, due to inability to return the loan, civil suit & imprisonment.
 Jupiter, Venus or lord of 9 and 1 connected with the significator, indicates imprisonment on political grounds.
 Mars lord of 8 connected with any of these significator show that one will be punished for theft.
 Saturn and Mercury threaten imprisonment due to forgery, falsification of accounts and misappropriation.
 Mars, Saturn and Venus threaten imprisonment due to rape, kidnapping and brothel.
 Mars and Saturn give imprisonment due to murder.
 Release includes reunion with kith and kin, free movement and independence: 24 and 11" house indicate the above results.
 Therefore benefics in the constellation of the significators of the houses 2 arid 11 indicate the release.
 Hence the period or subperiod governed by evils connected with the houses 2 and 12 show the time of imprisonment and the period and subperiod of the benefics connected with the houses 2 and 11 indicate the time of release. The interval is the duration of the imprisonment.
 If the evil planet connected with the houses 2 and 12 were to be in 3 or 6 or 9 or 12 and in a fixed sign, the duration is long.
 If the evil planet be lord of 1 (like Saturn for Aquarius Lagna) and owning another evil house 6 or 12 and is in 4 or 7, or 8 or 12, connected with the significators for imprisonment, is combust or retrograde, one will be a jail bird.
If lord of 8 is strong and afflicted one will die in the jail.
 Rahu, the ascending node is the chief significator for jails.
 Good aspects to 12" cusp or to the significator of the 12" house and evil aspect to the second cusp or the significators of the second house forebode confinement.
 In the course of my official tours to inspect the water supply to the prisoners in the jails in Madras State, | had the occasion to collect materials, horoscopes, ete., from both the supervisory staff and convicts. In majority of the cases, there was strong indication of imprisonment because of the occupation of an evil planet in 2 or 12 and in the constellation or sub of Rahu which is also connected with 2 or 12. Again | checked my horoscope and found how mysteriously the periods agree whenever | visit jails without committing any crime and without being so punished.
 So, whether on duty or due to punishment, only when the periods agree, then aicne one can visit a jail.

# Spiritual Life
 Spiritual life brings about an attachment to the unknown and unseen but about which we have read or heard much. Also it brings about slowly and steadily or surprisingly and suddenly separation from the family or detachment towards the material worldly pleasures.
 Mostly, all of us get initiated by a person-a Guruji-who has been experienced in those lines, who had the dynamic urge within him to seek the Truth by penance and deep meditation, regularly, systematically, continuously for a pretty long period. Only a few solitary individuals have the urge from the birth and even without a Guruji, they attain a high status in the spiritual life. They will be a very few in many, many millions of the people, who will have
 Mukti or progressive emancipation. Of them, a few will merge themselves with Nirguna Braman.
 For such an attainment, one has to cultivate serenity, sincerity and simplicity. No university degree, nor any diploma can give
this. But these are to be either inborn or obtained by cultivating, these virtues. Also you should avoid audacity, irritability, cruelty and impurity.
 One should keep the body fit, hale and healthy by regular habits and practice. One can enjoy fullness, peace and bliss only through meditation by trying to attain God-realisation developing a detached attachment feeling towards wife, etc. It does not mean that one should ignore her or forget her or get separated from her. The noblest way of enjoying bliss by developing spiritual side is (as is said in Tamil ‘Illaramay Nallaram’) to give due respect and regard to one’s wife considering her as
 Goddess Lakshmi, as the embodiment of patience, sacrifice, service and love, as one who contributes for the building up of the nation by moulding the children, as one who assists in our attempts. So one can lead a family life and at the same time go on progressing on the spiritual side.
 There are a very few people who desert the family, run away and wait for the choultry bell for their daily meal —- Wretched!
 What a Sanyasi he is!
 Nowadays criminals after committing the crime try to hide themselves and hence lead a Sanyasin life without allowing any one to know his whereabouts. Saffron dress alone does not make on Sanyasin. Development of the spiritual side by regular meditation and prayers is needed. ‘If one becomes a Sanyasi, in true sense, he is not denied of absolute necessities. He will be respected and honoured. In that situation, if need be, without a pie in the bank on his name he can operate on the purses and cheques of the rich people, without a car, he can travel in latest modern car, without a house of his own, he can be in a palace, though he does not pray for it, but it comes automatically.
 Hence lead a family life and at the same time reduce Ika-
 Lokha-Sukha and improve the Para-Lokha-Sadhana.
(Therefore one has to judge a horoscope for the above virtues and vices). Let us take an example.
Can this native achieve his aim in spiritual side? The horoscope is as follows:-
 Sun Dasa balance 2 years 9 months 11 days. Now he is running Jupiter Dasa Ketu Bhukti from 1-12-68.
(a) Will he be sincere?
 Benefic in the 4" house, in the constellation of another benefic and sub of a benefic makes one true, reliable and sincere. In this chart Jupiter is in the 4" Bhava. It is in Mercury’s star and
 Jupiter sub. So he cannot afford to entertain evil thoughts.
 Westemers claim that Saturn helps concentration. According to their theory Saturn forms sextile aspect with the ascendant and it promises that he will be able to concentrate. But according to
 Krishnamurti, mind which is normally ever wavering is never at rest —
 Hence, one is to find out the sub lord of the position occupied by
 Moon. Moon is in 3° 48’ in Taurus. Hence Moon is in the sub of Saturn.
 So any one having Moon in the sub of Saturn can concentrate. This native also will meditate and concentrate. tt is possible.

# Will he be arrogant?
One can be arrogant only when Mars is connected with the ascendant, or at least with the lord of the ascendant. As Mars has no connection at all, he will neither be arrogant, nor have the egoism. If Mars is in Saturn sub, one will be un assuming and simple. Here Mars is in sat sub. So, he will not have the vices which are to be avoided.
 So, when one has no vice, but has the necessary virtues, then we have to judge whether one will have the opportunity to have a good Guruji to initiate; if so, when.
5 house denotes initiation. It is occupied by Mars. No planet is in Mars star. 5" house is owned by Jupiter. Sun alcne is in
 Jupiter's star.
 Therefore he will have initiation during Jupiter Dasa, Sun Bukti
 Mars Anthra i.e., in September 1972.
 Will he practise?
 Whenever Saturn is in 3, there will be interruption. Yet it is the tenth house which shows one’s Yoga, Karma, Yagna, etc.
 No planet is in the 10" house. Venus is the lord of the 10" cusp.
 It is in Ketu star Saturn sub. Therefore he will practise.
 Progress depends on the 11" house. It is not occupied by any planet. Mercury is the lord of the 11" cusp. Jupiter alone in
 Mercury star. Therefore during Jupiter Dasa itself, he will have satisfactory progress. Saturn Dasa follows. Saturn is in Jupiter's sub. Hence it will continue - Progress during Saturn Dasa will be like an inclined plane ever increasing in height.
 According to Westerners, Jupiter forming trine aspect with
 Neptune in the 12" house is very favourable for the awakening of spiritual faculties. The inspirational nature will be marked.
 This aspect is good for material success, worldly pleasures and vast advancement in spiritual life.

# About Dress
Dress helps you to retain air of distinction in a party or gathering.
 You can eat to please yourself; but you have to z!2ase others by dress. You may be a great orator. Yet if you do not dress properly people will laugh at you than to admire at your eloquence. For that reason, one should not be the first for fashion nor the last. But one should use comfortable, cheap and tasteful dress. Only fools will have the variety of loving fine clothes and new fashions and value themselves by such adress. Avoid all things extravagant. Exquisite neatness is required. Outsiders can see only how we dress but they can’t see how we live or what we eat.
 So, you should be clever in making selection of perfume, cosmetic, dress, etc. Your dress should be much pleasing and also attracting the attention of others. You should have the knack for choosing clothes which are not only attractive but also serving you long; others should try to copy you. To enhance the
 Personality, buy the diamonds, jewellery, flower, etc. Your appearance will be stately if you put on such colour which suits your birth sign. Dignity is to be maintained.
 The colour of the dress varies with the birth sign so also the perfumery, jewels, etc.
 It is not only the attractive colour that is to be chosen but one should find out, astrologically such a colour which will bring fortune and which will be helpful to enjoy life with peace and pleasure.
 Further each sign-born should know which day is the best to put on new dress. You should know that one should observe the day when a new thing is used for the first time. One can buy on any day but choice of the day to use it alone should be strictly observed.
If one puts on a new cloth when Moon is in Aswini, one will have the fortune to get more and more dress.
If Moon is in Bharani and one uses a new cloth then it will be stolen.
If it Is in Karthik there is danger from fire.
Moon in Rohini improves the bank position.
Moon in Mrigasirisha threatens that the dress will be spoiled by rats.
If Arudra is the star then one loses money.
If the day is Punarvasu, there can be no trouble.
Pushyam star promises wealth.
Avoid Aslesha which will destroy the cloth.
Magham star threatens danger to life. . Poorvapalguni day threatens troubles from Government.
Uthrapalguni increases income and offers good health.
Hastham gives success.
Chitra shows that one will have more and more new clothes.
Swathi is good for rich food.
Visakam increases popularity.
Anuradha is for good friendship and social success.
Jyeshta shows loss.
Moolam star loss of dress in water through dhoby.
Poorvashada, health lost.
Uthrashada, sumptuous feast.
Sravanam star-eye disease.
Dhanishta star-good yield from field.
Sathabhisha star-danger from poison.
Poorvapathrapada star-danger through water.
Uthrapathrapada star-child birth; those who have no children make it a point to use new cloth on
Uthrapadra star day.
Revathi star becomes rich, purchases Gems.
(Therefore the auspicious stars are
 Aswini, Rohini, Punarvasu, Pushyam, Uthrapalguni, Hastham,
 Chitrai, Swathi, Visakam, Anusham, Uthrashada, Danishta,
 Uthrapathrapada and Revathi.
(The inauspicious asterisms are
 Bharani, Krithika, Mrigasirisha, Arudhra, Ashlesha, Magha,
 Poorvapalguni, Jyeshta, Moolam, Poorvashada, Sravana,
 Sathabisha and Poorvapathrapada.
Exceptions
If a star day is considered to be inauspicious one can use new clothes if the happy occasion is a marriage or birth day at the time when others give them as presents.

# WHICH GEM CAN | USE?
 Gems look like fragments of Heaven. They are beautiful, costly and attractive. Their colours penetrate deeply like the perfumeries. Some believe that by using the gem, the disclosed knowledge is gained by divine grace or supernatural agency.
 Some believe that one can dodge fate by using them. Such a superstition or belief was transmitted to us from time, immemorial.
 Thousands of years ago Aaron, the Priest of Israel used to put on a breastplate in which 12 different gems were set and these 12 gems were assigned to the 12 signs of the Zodiac, the pathway of the planets in the Heavens. Nowadays most of the people use the gems mainly for two reasons. It is beautiful and during the time of emergency it can fetch currency. Only some use that particular Gem which will suit him or her so that they can have peace, pleasure, prosperity and success. The fact is that the planets radiate different colours. Each stone is sympathetic to the nature and vibrations of each planet.
 AGATE : pleases God; confers wisdom and eloquence; safecuards from deception; strengthens the heart; cures fever,
scorpion bites and snake-bites. Removes obstacles in receiving the legitimate inheritances. AMETHYST is a preventive for the evil results of devils and ghosts. If one keeps this gem in the water and drinks one will be cured from sterility. If one drinks intoxicating liquid and spoils his or her health, by using amethyst one will have his thoughts subdued and gradually give up drinks.
 Health improves. Warriors become calm and act wisely even during danger.
 AQUAMARINE : It is very rare gem. Itis considered to be a pure one and it was generally given to the girls at the time of their wedding with the belief that both of them can lead a happy and harmonious wedded life. Some believe that Aquamarine prevents one from suffering from the throat, liver and stomach. Musicians, wise people and those who lack courage can have advantage by using Aquamarine.
 BERYL : Keep it in water and drink; mutual affection will be increasing.
 CARAL : It gives one courage, success in litigation, cure from epidemic disease. It is a preventive for the evil effects of devils and ghosts; it protects one from lightening and thunder.
 DIAMOND : No doubt a costly one; It makes the wearer purer and more virtuous. It repeals poison, gives firm mind and promises pleasant family life. If a lady puts it round her neck, safe delivery is assured. Diamond also adds beauty to the person and protects the wearer from many diseases.
 Emerald : is used by chaste people. It improves one's memory, retentive power and reproductive ability. Some believe in grinding emerald to powder and give it as a curative measure for the bites of venomous animals. Some administer it for dysentery, hysteria and epilepsy. Some believe that one can discover any evil, as emerald will lose its brilliance, if there is deception and treachery. Emerald is best suited for those who undertake higher studies, overseas travel and foreign trade. It increases domestic happiness.
 GARNET : Itis believed that this gem protects one from poison and plague. It contributes for health and peace. It saves one from lightening. There is also this danger in garnet. If a person is not entitled by his birth sign to put garnet, it will bring misfortune. But if proper person uses it, it cures ulcer and inflamation. It improves the business, increases the income and adds reputation as well as popularity. Itis auspicious for the married couple, One can be successful in his dealings with the Government.
 OPAL : is generally used by astrologers and such of those who want the power of foresight to enable one to predict. It also improves one’s ambition. It is helpful to form Permanent tie of friendship. It adds happiness to the martied couple. Mediater to settle any dispute will find success by using this gem. One can win in litigation and give fresh life to the business. The brilliance of opal if effected by weather and by humidity whenever it is brilliant and very bright, it is sure that the wearer comes by good fortune,
 PEARL : Pearl is useful to preserve chastity by wearing it round the neck,
 PERTH : (yellow colour): If a person holds it firmly in his hand it will burn the hand, Itis useful to cure gout.
 RUBY : It is good for gathering courage and banishing gloom as long as itis bright. It will attract friends and offer good fortune. If the luster is gone, misfortune will follow. Ruby drives out dirty thoughts, give the mind to control passion, allowes one to preserve health. It brings good cheer, It helps to form good friendship and also have permanent love.
 SAPPHIRE : It has deep religious significance. Even in olden days it was in use and king Soloman had it set in his jewel.
 This is dedicated to God. It is useful to maintain harmony and good relationship among the partners. Saints and pious people who would like to concentrate, meditate and pray to God wear it for the realisation of their ambition on the Spiritual side. So it is good for fortune, peace and pleasure,
SARDONIX: This gem is a carved one. In it some figure is generally engraved. It protects one from poisonous animals, teptiles and insects. It is used as a curative when one suffers from infectious disease. This Gem will be useful to form new good friend, improve self-control, etc. Itis also used by Lawyers,
 Actors, Orators and Educationists.
 TOPAZ: Topaz is the island in the red sea. This gem was first of all found here. It works as a talisman to cure various diseases including mental derangement, hysteria, madness, suicidal tendency, etc. One becomes sane, generous and wealthy. It is also used in the necklace or in the left arm. One becomes more brilliant and intelligent and leads a peaceful pleasant and contented life. Dreams also will be pleasant. There will be real attachment between husband and wife and each will be faithful to the other.
 TURQUOISE : The meaning of this word is Turkish. It was originally found in Turkey and taken to Europe, later. This is very powerful in curing headache and reducing enimical activity. This gem will also change its colour if either the health or life of the person who used it or his life is in danger. As soon as the health is cured and the danger comes to an end this Gem regains its original colour. It makes one generous, magnanimous, liberal, dutiful, honest and be a Jupitarian. i
 Which of the Gems can | use? Note the sub-lord of the ascendant and that of the 11" cusp. Note which houses are signified by them. If they are not at all connected in any manner with 6 or 8 or 12 then use that colour or that Gem which is indicated by the sub-lord of 1 or 11 or both. If the sub-lord of the ascendant or the 11" cusp happens to be the significator of 6 or 8 or 12, reject the colour indicated by such a sub-lord. Similarly one has to make selection of the colour and also the metal.
lf such a minute calculation could not be done then one can note the sign in which the ascendant has fallen and one can make his selection according to the Gems suitable for each sign as given below:
Aries	Amethyst, Diamond
Taurus	Emerald
Gemini	Aquamarine, Agate
Cancer	Ruby
Leo	(Ruby, Diamond) Sardonix
Virgo	Sapphire
Libra	Opal, Diamond
Scorpio	Topaz
Sagittarius	Turquoise
Capricorn	Garnet
Aquarius	Sapphire, Amethyst
Pisces	Aquamarine
!f one knows which planet is favourable to him then according to the nature of the planet he can use that Gem, which is mentioned below:
 Sun Ruby
 Moon Pearl
 Mars Coral
 Mercury Emerald
 Jupiter Topaz
 Venus Diamond
 Saturn Sapphire
 Rahu & Ketu Agate or Turquiose
 Sun Orange or dark red metal Gold
 Moon . White, Silvery Silver
 Mercur Slate colour Green Quick-Silver
 Venus Yellow, Pale blue, neither white nor black metal Copper
Mars Deep Red, Iron
 Jupiter Purple, Violet, blue, white Tin
 Saturn Brown, indigo black Lead
 Rahu & Ketu mixed colour.
 The metal which is considered to be governed by each planet is as follows:
 Sun Gold and Copper
 Moon Silver
 Mars Copper
 Mercury Quick Silver
 Venus Silver and Copper
 Jupiter Tin
 Saturn Lead
 Rahu & Ketu Alloy
1. Which houses are we to judge for the engagement of marriage? The significators of the house 2, 7 and 11 denote marriage in their conjoined periods. But the planets which are the significators of 2 or 7 or 11 is also the significator of 3 and also 9 the marriage will be engaged in their conjoined periods.
 Because the third house shows the agreement of the native and the 9" is the house which indicates the consent and agreement of the other party.
2. To proceed on deputation with increase in emoluments:
 This shows that there is transfer, change in the surrounding, colleagues, etc. and also increase in the income. Here the houses 5, 9.and 11 are to be judged. The significators of 11, will be the significator of the 12" also, denoting life or service in a new place.
3. Selection ofa person fora higher post: This selection will be given effect to either immediately or at a later date. Yet that, one is selected for a post, is the decision of the appointing authority and the news a good one to the native. Therefore one
will hear about the selection when the significator of 11 is also the significator of the third house. Actual promotion will come when the conjoined periods of either the 2” or 6" or 10 and 11" operate.
4. Confirmation in a post: It will be done during the conjcined period of the planet which is deposited in the sub of the planets in fixed sign.
5. When will C.B.I. take action and find secretly without our knowledge what crime we had committed — what bribe we have received or what illegal gratification was received or and so on? Planets connected with your 10" and 12" house will operate.
6, When will they take action and suspend us? When the conjoined period of the planets connected with 5 or 9 and 12, operate.
7. When will one person’s desire be not fulfilled in Horary? !f the sub-lord of the 11" cusp is retrograde then only whatever he desires to have will not be had. Ambition cannot be realised.
8. How to find out whether a man speaks truth or not?
 Shakespeare has said “The cheek is apter than the tongue to tell an errand.” It means truth makes the face of a person shine who speaks. It is the second house which governs the face and also the tongue. If the sub-lord of the second cusp is governed by
 Mars in any manner connected with Mercury one speaks untruth.
 If the sub-lord is Saturn who is in any manner connected with
 Mercury then one hides some news and thereby omits to mention.
 If the sub-lord is Mercury and no other planet is connected with it, one gives the information in meticulous detail. If Venus governs, he is the peacemaker. If Venus is connected with Mercury, then as a peacemaker he will be clever to find out the strength and weakness of both the parties. If Sun governs the sub of the second, one does his duty nobly and never lies. Thus one is to find out whether one utters a lie, whether carries the information and presents it correctly or how he conducts.
9. How to find out whether one will be economical or one will be a spend-thrift? Note the sub-lord of the 2” cusp. Ifitis either Mars or if itis deposited in the constellation of Mars one will be a spend thrift. If Mars is also the significator of the 10" house then he will earn more and also spend more. But if the sub-lord of the second cusp is Saturn one will be economical. One is overliberal and spends away much more than one’s income if the sub-lord of the 12" is Mars which is also connected with Jupiter.
10. Will | be bold enough to undertake this job? First one should know whether what lie does is right. If he finds itis right and if he does not do it then he lacks courage. True courage is not the brutal force; but is the firm resolve of virtue and reason.
 For this you should judge the sub-lord of the third cusp. It shows consideration of pros and cons. One can weigh the merits and demerits and then take a decision. True courage is the result of reasoning. Resolution lies more in the head than in the veins
 Mental calibre and courage are shown by the third house.
 Consider the sub-lord of the 3 house. Any planet being the sub-lord of 3 is also the significator of 2 or 10 or 11, one will surely undertake, do, come out successful and gain thereby.
11. Who is contended and who is not? A poor man wants only something and if they are given he is contended. The luxurious person wants many things which he may or may not get. So he can’t have contentment. An avaricious man wants everything. So he will ever remain discontented.
 Contentment or otherwise depends on one’s mind. The fact is that the contented man is never poor whereas the discontented person is never rich.
 One should judge only the sub-lord of the third cusp. Oneis never contented if the sub-lord of the third house is Mars.
 Legitimate and reasonable ambition will be there. If the sub-lord is Jupiter, Saturn shows no ambition at all. Nor it gives contentment. Lazy, sluggish temperament or jealousy will be there. Thus we should judge from the nature of the planets connected with the third cusp in the Horary chart.
12. When can | get rid of the present partner? Partner is indicated by the 7" house, Permanent tie is shown by the 11" house. The significaiors of the 6" house show when he will leave.
 The significator of the 12" house indicate when you will drop him.
 Also those significators of the 7" house is in the sub of the significator of the 6" house one leaves in that period; if the significator of the 7 house is in the sub of 12 partnership will be broken by you.
 Or if the significators of the 7" also is the significator of the 6" house then in its period one gets separated. But if the significator of the 7" is also the significator of the 12" you sever connection with him.
 Similarly, the significator of the 11" house indicates
13. When can | heave new partner in business? You can have a new partner when the period of the planet signifying the 7" house is also the significator of the 11 house and the significator of the 11" should be connected with 2™ or 10" house.
 Or the significator of the 7 house should be in the sub of the 11" house and the 2™ or 10".
14, Will | meet with any accident in my journey? You have to consider the 3 house for the journey, if itis for a short duration and the 9" house for a journey of long duration. If the significator of the 3° house for short journey and the significator of the 9" house for a long journey happen to be the significator of the houses 6 and 8 one must meet with an accident. The injury will need hospitalisation if it is also the significator of the 12" house.
15. When will my tenant vacate? 6" house indicates tenant.
 The 4" and 11" counted there from, denotes the occupation of your house. If he is to vacate, the 3 from the 6" should operate.
 Hence the significator of the 8" (3% from the 6") should, be connected with the 6", i.e. the significator of 6 also, Hence during the conjoined period of such of the significators of both 6 and 8 he must vacate.
16. When can | get a tenant to my newly built house? When you run the conjoined period of the significators of 6, 4" from the 6" i.e. the 9" and the 11" from 6", i.e., the 4" conjointly operate.
 That is, the significator of 6, 9 and 4 must rule conjointly a time.
17. Am | the first person whom the other person loves? If the lord of the sign, lord of the star and the lord of the sub, of the 8" cusp is your ruling planets at the moment of your birth, then you are not the first. You will be ‘N' plus 1. You can request the other person if you decide to marry him, to stop with ‘N’ plus one and do not add any more. Butif the lord of the sign, the star and the sub of the Ascendant happen to be the ruling planets of yourself at the moment of your birth then you are the first person.
 One thing you should also know. From your query the astrologer can find out whether you were in love with anybody else. How,
 Sir? If the star lord, sign lord and sub-lord of the second cusp happens to be the lover's ruling planets at the moment cf his birth, then you had already intimacy with another person. This person will be ‘N' plus 1 to you. Oh God? Then to consult an astrologer is dangerous. Really if one wants to keep his or her secret activities within himself or herself then for them an astrologer is dangerous as per your term. | have borrowed so much that the liabilities are much more than my assets. Now the creditors bring pressure on me every moment. What shall | do?
 Do not consult astrologer at this stage. Go to the court and have relief by filing an insolvency suit after necessary arrangements, etc. with your advocate and friends. Astrologer ought to have been consulted before you borrowed. Then you would have been given proper advice. He knows that poverty is hard but debt is horrible. It is a horror to be going on borrowing like some speculators. To live in a smoky house with ants, cockroaches, rats, scorpion, bugs, mosquitoes and flies or to live with a scolding and violent wife is much better than to live on borrowing. You lose your liberty. When you return home late in the night, your wife submits a list of the creditors who were waiting till late in the night and narrate all what they told. She will exaggerate also. You will be ashamed to see the creditors. You
avoid taking the route passing through the creditor's house or office, with great fear you talk to him if accidentally you are met by him. You have to make poor pitiful sneaking excuses. It leads you to utter falsehood and speak lie without any admixture of single truth. Your spirit and virtue are deprived. You are like a squeezed orange. How can it maintain its beautiful shape? Rather you will be like an empty bag. How can you stand erect? Do not you know that out of debts, is out of danger. That is, debt is said to be a danger to one. Hence before proceeding to borrow consult an able astrologer. He will suggest you a time to take the cheque from the creditor, so that loan will not multiply and you will come by fortune to repay that which you have borrowed on the advice of the astrologer.
(1) ls 8" house ever evil? Itis said that the 8" house indicates receipt of gifts, legacy, money of the deceased, unearned income, insurance, bonus, gratuity, provident fund, arrears of pay, entangled money, etc. Also it is said that the repayment of loan is indicated by the 8" house. If the period of the planet owning and occupying the 8" house operates, will | receive money or will | issue cheque towards the loan amount which | borrowed?
8" house is the second to the 7" and 7" house indicates those with whom you transact. Either he who pays you or he who receives from you, both are indicated by the 7" house. The 8" house shows the money of the person with whom you transact.
 If the significator of the 8" house is also the significator of the 12" house, then you issue the cheque and the other person puts the cheque in his bank. If the significator of the 8" house is also the significator of the houses 6 and 11, then he gives (6") and you gain (11"). Therefore, the significator of 8 and 12 show repayment of loan or lending loan whereas thé significator of 6, 8 and 11 indicates gain of money.
: (2) 8 and 12" houses indicate the imprisonment: Is it not? Unless the third house operates imprisonment will never take place. Imprisonment or confinement in prison means you leave your permanent place of residence and you make a short
journey. Therefore 3, 8 and 12 indicate imprisonment. Detention in one’s own house is judged from the house 4, 8 and 12.
(3) Will | submit thesis for Ph.D.? You can submit thesis for Ph.D. only when the conjoined period of the significators of 4 and 9 operate. !f the significators of 9 is also the significator of 11, you pass; you get the Doctorate, But if the significator of 9 is the significator of 12 you cannot come out successful in your attempt. Again, if you add something more and submit again because of Saturn’s connection then if the period of the significator of 9 and 11 operates you will get through.
(4) Sir, you say that 11" house indicates success in the examination. When the 4" house show study, then is not the 11" house 8 to the fourth? Correct. If you pass the examination because of the 11" house significator, does it not mean that the course of study you had due to the fourth house significator ends?
 Can you study again the same course when you have completed ance? (5) According to you, 5" house is gain to the opponent, but you say that 5" house significator must operate to make money by speculation. How do you reconcile?
 If the significator of 5 (giving you the mind, money and opportunity to speculate) is also the significator of 6 and 11 you gain in speculation. But if the significator of 5 is the significator of 8 and 12 you lose. 5" house shows the mode of gain or loss.
 The other houses indicate how you fare.
(6) How to declare that one cannot have a child at all?
 Ask for a number within 249. Erect a map for that latitude of the place of judgement. Note the sub lord of the 5" cusp. Ifitis the significator of 2 or 5 or 11 he will have a child. Butif the sub lord of the 5" cusp is the significator of 1 or 4 or 10 he can never have a child at all. Houses 1, 4, 10 are detrimental to the birth of children, being the 12'" (negation) to houses 2, 5 and 11.
(7) Can | publish a book? You must put the query in the following manner. Will | be able to write a book? Will | complete
the manuscript? Then you should know will | publish. Hence you should ask for 2 numbers. The first will refer to the completion of the book. The second number will indicate whether you can print and publish. One can complete writing a book if the significator of the third and the 11" houses operate and Mercury is in any manner connected with them. It can be published if
 Jupiter is one of the planets connected with the third and the 11" house.
 One can print it only when Mars and Mercury are connected with the third and the 11" house. Hence the above rule is applicable both to the natal horoscope and to the horary chart. it you take it as a business, then the significator of 3 should also be the significator of the 10" house. Even to write articles and hand them over to the publisher, cne should have the significator of 3 to be the significator of 10 also. 10" house is for earning some money or for having the publicity, or for becoming popular.
(8) Tap water from a well: | want to have a well sunk. | should get water even during drought season. Where and when can | drive a borewell?
 First you should know whether you would be going on spending and continuing to drive the borewell till you tap the subsoil water-bearing strata; if it is very deep whether you will patiently preserve or not. Then only the question arises whether you will have it and if so at what depth.
 Natal Astrology will not help you much. Take Horary. Ask for a number. Query is to be taken as “Will my desire to tap water, within my means be fulfilled?
(a) It is said that in the year Paridhabi there will be much of dearth for water. If you want to have water at all times, then it is better to have a well erected in this year as you can go very deep into the earth and never it will get dried up because you operate when the subsoil water bearing strata will be at the bottom most level.
(b) Whenever Saturn is in Sathabisha or Ashlesha or Jyeshta or Moola, there will be less of rain and hence the water-bearing strata will go down. At that time you can dig.
(c) Again select that year when the year lord is Sun.
 If you wouid like to know where to make a bore and at which depth you will get water, you read Brihat Samhita Chapter 54 on the finding of water springs. There are 125 slokas. These give an idea of finding out a place where you can have a well and at what depth you can get water. Also it tells you whether the quantity of water will be copious or not. It also gives you information whether the water will be wholesome, potable and palatable or not. When one goes through all the rules, he will find that it cannot be used where the land is without a plant or tree or anthill.
 Only when one goes through these slokas, one can realise the difficulty. Further one should try these rules, verify and then give one's opinion.
 But what | had been doing and I do nowadays is as follows:
 Ask for a number between one and two hundred and forty-nine.
 If the sub-lord of the 11" cusp or the lord of the constellation in which the sub-lord of the 11" cusp was situated, were to be ina watery sign, one will tap, water. If it is in a barren sign, one cannot tap water. He will leave it. If the sub-lord is deposited in the constellation of Moon or Venus or Mercury, one will get water quickly. If Moon is in any manner connected with Jupiter then there will be copious supply. If Moon is connected with Venus, the water will be sweet and palatable. If Moon is connected with
 Saturn then the spring will not be sufficient enough to maintain the head and the level of water will fall down quickly, so that one should resort to intermittent pumping. If Saturn and Mars are connected with the sub-lord then there will be free ammonia and much of nitrites threatening that the water has been recently polluted; if it is connected with Mars alone there will be iron in the water; though at the time of pumping the water may appear to be clear, in a few minutes it will turn to be red due to the formation of ferric salts. If Moon is connected with nodes there
will be much of sulphates so that the water is both brackish and also there would be much of permanent hardness thereby total solids will be beyond permissible limits. If Saturn and Sun are connected with Moon, the flourine content will be more than | part per million and continuously drinking such a water will cause mottied enamel, overgrowth of bones, rigid bones, indigestion and rigid vertebral column. If Mercury is connected with the sub- lord, one will have another well also sunk so that there will be plurality of wells. The depth at which one can get, cannot be predicted by me. Itis just like asking how many miles will | travel.
 Is it long journey or shortjourney? Are we to consider the distance or the time taken to cover the distance? One will be able to go to
 Bombay and come back to Delhi before one who goes to avillage near Meerut and come back. Astronauts went to Moon and returned before the train leaving De!' arrived at Madras in that week. Here who has made short journey, and who has gone a long journey. Similarly, one may take days to blast the rock and find out water at a depth of 30 feet whereas another can find water even 40 or 50 feet below the ground level and he can tap water much earlier than the other person, who has to bore through the rock. Therefore, it is possible to say whether one can get water with less of exertion or after great efforts. Research must be done to find out the exact depth where one can find water.
 Sub-soil water level, will be gradually changing according to season,
(9) Which child will help me in my last days? With whom will | live? One may have many children and none may help.
 So the query should be whether | will be a dependant on my children in my old age; if so which of my children will support me. Itis both from the natal horoscope and horary one can find out whether one will have sufficient finance in his old days to meet his expenses or one will borrow or have the deficient amount supplemented by the children or friends.
 To know which child will support, one has to note down the dasa and bhukti running. These planets offer the results of the lord of the constellation in which they are deposited. Hence note
down the dasa lord, bhukti lord, the lords of the constellation where they were at the time of birth in the birth chart. That child who has born with such ruling planets at the time of his birth who happen to be the dasa lord or bhukti lord or the lords of the constellation where the dasa lord and bhukti lord were situated, will support, provided they are advantageous to you, promising help; but if the dasa and bhukti indicate separation then there will be separation from that child then. In the same dasa ruled by a planet, one child may invite the father to the place of his residence depending on his job. He can keep him and be of great assistance during a particular bhukti. When the bhukti changes the son will show negligence silence and reluctance, and the father will feel embarrassed to further stay. It means the previous bhukti lord promises help whereas the next bhukti lord indicates withdrawal of support. Both the lord of ihe bhukties will be the ruling planets of that son or daughter, indicating what one experiences through that individual i.e., son or daughter.
 Similarly, in a particular dasa a fellow marries a girl. They live happily. But in the same dasa in another bhukti or anthra, there is difference of opinion; dispute arises and both get separated, This is shown by that sub-lord who operates, whereas dasa lord has both portfolio; i.e. wedding and also separation.
 If the sub-period is ruled by the planet connected with harmony and life with wife, then he lives together and her ruling planets at the time of her birth will be the lords of the dasa bhukti or the lords of the constellation in which they are deposited. When separation comes, he get separated with the same lady.
 Therefore now also the period that runs will be governed by her ruling planets; but the sub-period lord will be the significator of 6 or 10 or 12. Therefore, one has to take into consideration the ruling planets of a person with whom we will be friendly or not, who will lend support or not.
10. Will that person vote for me or vote against me? Note the ruling planets of the person about whose action you doubt.
 If his ruling planets are to support you, i.e., if they happen to be the significator of 6 or 11 you can be sure that he will vote for
you. You need not doubt. But if the ruling planet of that person is the significator of your houses 5 and 12 he will vote against you. If the planet is the significator of both 11 and also 12, then find out the sub sub-period which is to run for you. If the sub sub-period lord is connected with 6 or 11 you are sure to get his vote. But if the sub sub-period is ruled by a planet which is the significator of 5 or 12 in that sub sub-period he will vote against.
 Have we not seen people who support one now and then the other. It is not his or her wish. It depends on the period which one runs. Therefore the readers should note that the events change according to the lord of the dasa, bhukti, anthra etc. and such an advantageous or disadvantageous results can be had through the friendship or enmity of the person depending on his tuling planets and the houses to which they are the significators.
 11. While comparing the horoscopes of bride and bridegroom, how to predict that this boy will marry only this girl or whether this girl will marry only this boy?
 Answer: - First of all erect the horoscope according to my instruction. Judge individually all the horoscope and find out the time of wedding. When the time of marriage of both agree then there is the likelihood of both getting married. But ifa chart shows that for years the marriage cannot come up but either of the two will get married now, reject that chart which indicates late marriage on a different date.
 Note the significators of marriage in all the charts. If either is running A dasa, B bhukti and C anthra, note whether A, B and C are the ruling planets at the moment of the birth of the other; or the planets deposited in the constellation of A or B or C will be the ruling planets at the moment of the birth of the partner. This is a certainty.
 When a child is born, the father runs A Dasa B Bhukti C
 Anthra and the mother X Dasa Y Bhukti and Z Anthra. The child will have the ruling planets at the moment of the birth which will agree with the period which the father and the mother run or those deposited in the constellation of the dasa lord, bhukti lord and anthra lord. This rule also will never fail.
For a business you may be in search of a partner. A few may come forward. You have to make the selection as follows.
 Or you will select as follows. When do you take a partner? What are the planets ruling this period? Either these planets or those deposited in the constellation of these lords must be his ruling planet. If the other party's ruling planet is not one of the significators according to your chart then he cannot be your partner. Finally, follow Horary astrology as expounded by me.
 Ruling planet at the moment of judgement will correctly guide.
12. Sir, how to find out why a marriage which was about to be settled was prevented from fructifying?
in Horary astrology the querist gives a number and you calculate the nirayana position of the lagna. Exactly 180° away is the seventh cusp. The sub-lord of the 7" cusp should be the significator of the houses 1, 6, 10 or 12. It shows that the marriage will not take place with the party in question. If the sub-lord is not only the significator of 1 or 6 or 10 or 12 but also the significator of 2, then the marriage is stopped due to want of money to meet the expenses. Itis mainly due to lack of means. If the sub-lord of 1 or 6or 10 or 12is also the sub-lord of the 3 house, then the marriage is dropped due to interference of neighbours or cousins or due to any information received by the other party, against the interest of the querist. If the sub lord of 1, 6 or 10 or 12s also the sub-lord of the 4 house, then the mother is on the way of fixing the marriage; or it may be due to disagreement in giving a house or estate or vehicle. If the sub-lord is also the significator of the 5" house; then the previous love affairs of the querist will be brought to light and due to his bad reputation, the marriage will not take place.
 If the sub-lord is the significator of 1 and 6 then the marriage may be stopped due to ill-health of the querist, being known to the other party, or the maternal uncle will play foul game or servants may do mischief or the secret enemy of the other party may carry tales against the querist.
 Ifthe sub-lord is also the significator of the 7®, then on hearing that a law suit pending against the querist, the other party will
disagree. If the sublord is also the significator of the 8" house, then the marriage is stopped as the querist does not get as much dowry as he demands from the other party. Or it may be due to the death of the relative which will be taken as an ill-omen.
 If the sub lord is also the Significator of the 9" marriage will not take place as the party could not come in time and he does
 Not get leave or in a foreign country and could not come or one's examination will be taking place or the relations of the other party will stop it.
 If the sub-lord is the significator of the both 1 and 10 then the wedding does not come through the interference of elders or
 Officers or superiors or due to his professional status which in the eyes of the other party is inadequate.
 If the sub-lord of these houses 1 or 6 or 10 or 12 is also the
 Significator of the 11" house, the marriage is stopped due to the interference of friends or elder brother.
 If the sub-lord of the 12" is also the sub-lord of 1 then it is
 Certain that there is some tale carrying, and secret enemies hover round making false propaganda. So the marriage does not come up.
- Why Lagna alone is considered?
 Dear Sir,
 I find in your Magazine, that since a couple of years, you are not suggesting that the Moon sign should be taken in case the lagna is afflicted and Moon sign is not. Why?
 Answer: Sir, | had been following the above method of taking the unafflicted ascendant or Moon sign, But in my research, only in 1965 end, | understood that when twins are born, Moon does not move even a single minute, whereas the lagna alone moves and when the research on the sub-lord, came out successful to read out the diametrically Opposite results among the twins, | have given up the idea of taking Moon sign, in case lagna is
afflicted. Itneeded reconsideration. So, we must, whether lagna is afflicted or not, take only the exact position of lagna. Kf the lagna is afflicted, then the horoscope has certain defect, and simply because there is that defect, we should not jump to Moon sign which is auspicious. After having found out this, | have stopped writing in the above manner, mentioned by you.
 Therefore, / request all the readers to take only the lagna and never the Moon sign, whether lagna is afflicted or not.
 Not only the lagna is important, but the exact position of all the 12 cusps are also important, to note the advantageous or disadvantageous results signified by the houses —- Bhava. The sub lord of the cusp above offers correct solution of that house.
 The significators show the time of event when the matter will be favourable or not.
( ROAD TO SUCCESS )
 We want peace and pleasure; progress and prosperity. How can we have them?
 All of us have some weakness or fault or defect in us. Never mind what they are; never worry about them; waste no time in learning them and correcting ourselves. Can anybody have sound sleep having bug in the bed and lice in the head. Do not we try to eradicate them? Similarly we should take all measures to correct ourselves and cultivate desirable habits. Otherwise look, how they appear in others.
 Find out one’s weakness and what he should do. The sign occupied by the lord of the constellation in which the sublord of the Ascendant is situated will give the clue. That is, you note who is the lord of the sub in which the lagna falls. As a planet offers the result of the lord of the constellation in which it is deposited, note in which constellation, the sub lord of the
 Ascendant is tenanted. Then find out in which sign the lord of the constellation is. The characteristic of that sign is to be understood and noting down the weaknesses one should
improve. The argument is that when twins are born within 10 minutes difference and the lagna is in the same sign and in the same star which is it that changes, except the sub in that star.
 This method is really surprising, correct and useful.
1. Ifthe sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a pianet in ARIES:-
 You would change your views quite suddenly without any consideration: at last you will realise that such a change has not done any benefit to you. Hence consider every matter deeply, calmly and wisely. You will not relish others’ suggestion. But
 Cultivate to take the advice of the wise and experienced persons who proceed steadily in all matters. You will be dogmatic in religious matters. You will be a fanatic and an extremist. This will create many enemies and cause varieties of troubles.
 Whenever you meet with opposition, you lose your temper, Use your militant nature and abuse others. You will sweep aside every obstacle that confronts your way without scrutinising the means you employ to get rid of it. So give up that fighting tendency and be considerate. Whenever there is litigation about your land or building or the boundary, try to compromise. In married life, do not widen the gap, by repeatedly finding fault with your partner for silly things and picking up quarrels. So, have a control over your temper. Do not get elated when someone talks high of you.
 Consider why he talks so and judge properly. Neither be extravagant nor impulsive. Suppose you do, as you like then you yourself will say that you had wasted a great deal of time, energy and money. Do not you realise that hasty action takes you by wrong route and the whole attempt was a waste?
 Hurriedly, only one thing which you can do, is to catch flies, as the Russians say. So cultivate Patience, Perseverance will follow.
 Prosperity will be the result. But if you never hear others, how can you expect others to answer your call when you need it.
 That is why, in politics, none can be a successful person for a long term. Always you should have a long range policy. Follow the above advice. Will you do? Then you are the Leader.
2. Ifthe sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a planet in TAURUS:-
 Your feelings will be extremely concentrated and they will create many enemies —all undesirable. Further hatred and jealousy will be the outcome. You are generally stubborn, rigid and reserved.
 But there should be the occasions when you should jelax also.
 Always to be very stubborn will surely do you harm. People with this position may be perverse also. It is not as bad as another, born being very obstinate. You do not admit that you are a fatalist.
 But you are always more or less a fatalist. Do not be very selfish.
 You are called selfish not for pursuing your own good but for neglecting your neighbour. However virtuous you may be, the virtues will not shine if you are selfish just as the sweet water in the river loses its quality by emptying into the brackish sea water. It is good that you do not lose your temper quickly. But it is very bad of you when you are vindictive, revengeful as you retain it for a long period. Even after some years have passed, you can't forget. The sign TAURUS (Bull) represents this also, i.e., even after biting the grass once, it brings back the cud and minces it again and reduces grass to nothing. Thus due to your slow, steady and solid attack, you do much harm to your opponent. This is too much. You should cultivate forgiving habit. Without any pain and strain you want to do everything easily. You never work hard and are never painstaking. So, you meet with failure. Atleast necessary activity is essential. Heavens wii; never help you if you do not act. Be active, you will be happy. Also do not be over cautious and exasperatingly deliberate. Do not be fond of easiness and thereby develop laziness. Sloths will smother many virtues. When you develop such ahabit and lead such a life for some years then, you will find when necessity for work arises, that you are unfit and every thing will appear to be difficult. So cultivate industry; everything will become easy. So get up early; be active, cultivate to help others. Forget others’ faults and Forgive. You will be blessed with a pleasant good life.
3. If the sub-lord of the ascendant is in the constellation of the planet occupying GEMINI:-
You will be prone to speedy and thorough changes in your point of view. You are deplorably lacking in persistence and also in taking a quick decision in any matter. You will consider the pros and cons, merits and demerits for such a long time that you miss the bus. The father of a Gemini boy suggested his son to select one of the three girls whom he had contacted. Before the
 Geminian could take a decision, all the three girls got married and when this boy wrote that he would prefer to marry one of them, he was surprised to be informed by the other party “sorry, he was too late”, You do not have the deliberate determination to do any job and stick to ittill it is completed. But none can do things more easily, gracefully and successfully than yourself, So also none can be a better adviser than you. When such is the case why should you take undue time to take any decision in your personal matters, The other great defect in you is that when once you have started to do any work, you are very nasty and anxious to know the results then and there. Suppose you have sown some seeds, you will irrigate, nurture and do all that is needed. Itis good. But your anxiety or curiosity would be to dig the earth and note then and there, how far it has. progressed. As you are intelligent you always find out shortcuts to finish a job.
 You cannot work in the same way as others do in their routine method, You adopt improved methods to do it quickly. Itis, no doubt, advantageous. But you do not take rest; nor you take exercise. Your health fails due to restlessness. So if you develop coherence, steadiness, quick decision and patience to hear others without resenting their suggestions and give up irritability, impatience, etc., then you will be the best intellectual to offer advice and to successfully complete many projects, big or small.
4. If the sub-lord of the ascendant is deposited in the constellation of the planet situated in CANCER:
 You have the tendency to imagine slights, think over and over again about others failure in showing courtesy or respect to you. So you have your feelings and get hurt easily. Ignore failures on other's part. As you ponder over again and again before making any attempt you miss many an opportunity like the Gemini
occupants. Before you decide which state Lottery ticket you can buy, that would have already been drawn. If you will think and think and at last decide to buy a raincoat and the day you buy, the season will end. Hence the delay has not served you any purpose; within yourself, you will feel that your delayed action ended in a waste. You are completely ruled by emotions and imagination. So it leads to a wandering and restless life. Rolling stone never gathers mass. A stenographer applied for a post.
 To prove his experience he had enclosed certificates received from the departments where he had served previously. The number of the companies he had served was much more than the number of years of his service, on the whole. You may be moody. So you waste your time, energy and talent. You always think of the future and worry about money matters. You become old prematurely because of such anxiety from youth. Take insurance policy and open recurring deposit account in a bank.
 Avoid anxiety. It is a pity that you are a constant prey to sensationalism and exaggerated emotion. So for days, you shun your friends and relatives and again emerge out as usual. You have good memory. You never forget the past. You can tell how you lived in a very poverty-stricken condition in youth and how you built up by steady savings, etc. Again you will never forget any harm done to you by anybody; nor you have the mind to forgive. In the case of SCORPIO occupants, they then and there retort and forget. But, Oh God! You will be going on pinching like a wicked mother-in-law. Hence read this and improve yourself. God will grant you FORTUNE.
5. Ifthe sub-lord of your Ascendantis in the constellation of a planet in LEO:-
 Your thirst for personal glory is unquenchable. Even though you are absolutely unfit to hold a very high responsible position _with authority, you are over-ambitious and it is ridiculous, Can everybody expect to marry a Princess? You will attack your enemies when unguarded and that too from behind. Even though such a tactics is good for a Military Officer, it is not good in civil life. You should not pose yourself like a lion and attack others.
 Cultivate to be modest and polite. Some authors view that Lion is not a warrior but a fraud. You will show favouritism to some. It means you deny the legitimate claim to the other. It is never honourable nor agreeable. You do not consider both sides of the question. You do, as you decide to do. Whenever you are crossed you become controvert. Just like SUN is always in direct motion and never retrograde, so also you always go, on and on, and never look back. You wrongly feel that those whom you had helped remain ungrateful over liberal. So you will be ever in want. Cultivate to cut the coat according to the cloth. You hate mean petty actions and you expect others also to follow yours footsteps. Your type is ever in the minority in this world just like the lions among all animals. You become bitter, suspicious and over critical as you find that you had been deceived. Otherwise you are proud; you presume much of self-importance and gradually become arrogant. Hence other reasonable people view this with contempt. You are over-ambitious; you have your own fears whether you would be over-looked; so, you forcibly make your presence felt. You try to develop the mind to love one and all, universally and judge things impartially. Avoid forcing conclusions at your own risk. Do not spend away all that you have and all that you get. Manage to maintain a comfortable- sized bank position. Try to have an attractive home. Then you are the KING, THE UNCROWNED KING.
6. Ifthe sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a planet in VIRGO:-
 Your nature is to be chatty. You will ke analytical and during conversation, you generally give disgustingly lengthy description, including all meticulous detail which will be boring to others. You keenly observe others’ faults and idiocyncrasies and you find
 Pleasure in passing your remarks. You cannot be at rest till such time the criticism is passed by you. Members of your family will never relish. You should not have nervousness and self- doubt. You are intelligent. You quickly perceive. Yet you need steadiness in going after what you want. Remember, you can achieve your goal only when you avoid change of tactics, now
and then whenever needed. Try to complete one work and then take up the other. Your bad habit of consulting everybody and confusing yourself should be given up. Therefore, you should consult only one doctor, only one Astrologer and so on.
 Otherwise you will be confused. Develop true consistency of purpose. Forget and forgive other’s faults. In married life, unless great care is taken to avoid the failings of your type, there is always the danger of matrimonial ship-wreck. You care more for money and hence you will be absorbed in your business. You always think of it, work very hard and return home very late and go next morning very early which creates an impression in your wife’s mind that you are indifferent hence your partner looks outside for sympathy and company. So if you continue to live a strongly personal life, it will lead to selfishness and.at the same time another walk of life will get shattered. Do not neglect hygiene.
 You need much relaxation. Prefer walking or swimming. If not, keep the company of books which you may relish. Do not waste your energy. Try to encash the same. No man in this world is perfect. So you congratulate yourself for your good qualities and note down your weaknesses. Correct yourself by avoiding the undesirable qualities and your lot will definitely improve.
7. Ifthe sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a planet in LIBRA:-
 YOU HAVE TO KEEP YOUR EMOTIONS IN CHECK. You should not allow things to get out of your hands. You should not appoint persons of opposite sex as your private secretaries. You will be wasting much of your time. You generally mix business and your pleasure. This will prove to be harmful in the long run.
 You have a fertile brain; many ideas will flash in your mind and they spring up one after another quickly. Therefore, you should try to take quick decision then and there and act. It is your habit to observe how others dress; also you note the mannerisms of others. You try to copy them and waste a lot; it is advisable to know your ability and so to have a limit. You are generally unassuming and simple. Therefore, clever people will take advantage of your innocence and try to fool you. So; you have
to consider carefully and make the best choices of the associates.
 You should deal with them carefully because you have broad outlook and even when you find them to be wrong, you forgive and forget the faults of such people; they may act against your interest; you can come to know of it and forgive them; but don't forget their action. You should know what harm is done by a person and how he had misbehaved, understand that the individual cannot be relied upon. You also believe that uvery new occasion demands a new dress and, therefore, you will spend much more than what you can afford, on cosmetics and perfumes. You should know that God has given you enough charm. A little of the makeup may do but you do not require so much as you use. You waste money on that score. You have to be very careful with the other sex as you are gentle, soft and weak with the opposite sex; if you remain for a long period unmarried and if you live in a hostel or away from your home for some length of time, then you will be tamed by an unscrupulous person of opposite sex who has desire to dominate and possess you. In case of a woman the peril is graver. Therefore, try to avoid the company of the other sex. You may have appendicitis or uterus trouble; kidney may be affected. To maintain good health it is necessary for you to take rest and retire whenever you feel like that; have balanced diet; keep yourself cheerful; be happy; enjoy life by listening to light music.
8. If the sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a planet in SCORPIO:-
 You generally over-estimate yourself and thereby invite trouble. You do not care for others’ opinion or how others would receive your criticism. So better have a control and do not pass any sarcastic remark. You wrongly, expect that everybody should be as intelligent as you are. And, therefore, there will be dissatisfaction and irritation. So do not expect all your subordinates to be either as clever or as hardworking as you are. Don't be over critical; they will feel dejected. So, whenever there are occasions for you to lose your temper, try to overcome them. Whenever you move with ladies be a little careful; try to
avoid the secret enmity of the other sex. Don't stoop to foul play or wrong accounting or any other unlawful action. Even if you have to lose, allow the loss; if you wait for sometime you can regain, all that lost by you. For that purpose, do not adopt any unfair means. Do not cultivate the habit of drinking otherwise you would repuire a swimming pool of the intoxicating drinks.
 As you do everything with energy and might, if you are bad, you are really very bad and there is no mistaking about it. Your courage never fails, your will is ever strong and your patience is many-fold stronger than those of others. Don’t make shipwreck of your life, developing into that of a reckless insatiable drinker or heartless profligate. If you are a doctor, generally you give strong dose of medicine weakening the patient's heart while dosing him for rheumatism and also you «in his digestion. So always try to give the minimum dose to your patients. Whenever your health fails, you have to strictly follow the instructions of your medical attendant. Whenever you suffer from dysentry etc. you generally take hot Stuff with much chilly, pickles etc. You must avoid. In your office you must avoid mixing with people who advocate to go on strike. If you take any part, in it then you will lead them. Naturally, you will become a social fire-brand and a dangerous person in the eyes of the community. When thorns are removed, whatis it that remains? Roses. So also, understand that if you exercise some care and if you are polite, you can enjoy all the fruits of life in this world.
9. Ifthe sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a planet in SAGITTARIUS:-
 Generally you are inherently selfish and inconsiderate. You may lack loyalty and sympathy. You easily forget the good done to you in the past by others. You may do anything to please yourself which may be undesirable and you do not care for your prestige or honour, yet, the faults of your type are not serious.
 They are flimsy and hence easily pardonable. You will be excused; you do not forget and leave it. You continue to feel jealous and remain vindictive. You are absolutely incapable of uttering a lie cogently and coherently or cheat anybody
successfully. You will have no face to meet them again, since you will be caught during your attempts. Otherwise, whenever you talk, you go tangentially and also during the conversation introduce needless extraneous matter which will bore others.
 Lack of purpose, shallowness, lack of ability to concentrate are your weaknesses. You waste a lot, not realising that it is a great sin.. You ever waste your energy, your money and also your materials. You go round a circle without serving any purpose.
 You are very courageous and you act; you feel satisfied if the result follows your own boasting. If you are unable to fulfil, if there is opposition, you lose your temper. You have vanity. You do not accept failure. You do not enjoy that much which you can because of your hasty actions. You do not enjoy that much which you can because of your hasty actions. You may be indifferent to your family life. You do not attend upon them properly. You create such an impression that you forget to do your duty. It is also not uncommon to commit a blunder while selecting a partner. * You are in a haste while settling the marriage and later in leisure and in solitude, you repent. Why? You could have gone slow, have some persons in view, observe them before taking a decision and then select the best out of the lot. You may say “Hanging and wiving go by destiny”. Let it be, you try to improve and make your honest attempts to avoid troubles in future. As regards health, you have to take care of your pulmonary system.
 Bronchitis is your common disease. Do not expose to severe cold. Do not give much of over-activity to your mind or body.
 There should be a limit in having exercise also. Read the above carefully. Correct yourself properly. Never be in a hurry. Then no more worry. Be ever merry.
10. If the sub-lord of your Ascendant is in the constellation of a planet in CAPRICORN:-
 You are over ambitious both to make money and also to acquire power. You assert yourself in your work where you serve and you always think of yourself alone. You are not unaware of your worth and your capacity. You are efficient and realistic; you are very selfish especially in search of power. You contemplate,
dream and you make efforts entertaining hopes. You live on hopes, you are mostly optimistic. Buy you become desperate and broken-hearted whenever you meet with failure and when there is undue delay in the realisation of your ambitions; so it leads you to overwork and exert too much. Your health will not permit so much of strain. Further mentally also you always contemplate, mediate and tax yourself very much. Due to overstrain you will feel fatigued. You should develop dignity and diplomacy and avoid nervousness and discontent. You have an intense desire to influence others, to manage them direct them and also persuade them. You meddle with others in one way or the other. This causes irritation in your friends and also in your close relatives. You must learn to understand and control yourself. ‘As regards the sex, you are incorrigible. You should know that you will have best period between your age of 56 and 70, therefore, you have to be working without much expectation in your early days and ultimately you will find that your patience has paid you amply in the end. You may become lazy, sluggish, due to the poor results you have in earlier days; but cultivate activity. Never be worried and be gloomy; otherwise digestive system will become weak and flatulence may be caused. Your health is also so fragile and weak that very easily you are upset by pulmonary affection also. Itis also not uncommon that people working with much of anxiety and over strain at last suffer from heart disease. None has gained anything by merely worrying.
 Be active. Do not be selfish. You will have Grand Success in “your life.
11. If the sub-lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation of the planet in AQUARIUS:
 You always prefer solitude; generally you do not relish to be in the midst of a crowd nor work in the midst of a group of workers where there is much noise. You try to be lonely but you should know that you would become lazy and lethargic when you are left alone. You should cultivate activity and promptness especially when things do not shape as you expect. What is the use of getting worried of feeling gloomy. Do not be a pessimist; but you
have to repeat the process with greater earnestness when you will surely be successful. You should never lack in the push nor in the courage. Be alert, have confidence and work within pleasure. You may not follow the tradition; you may act in a way which indicates that the laws are not intended for you. You will not hesitate to do any unusual and irregular things. Even in dress you are a peculiar person. You have your own individuality and mannerism. You should know that we have to live in a world where we have to keep with certain standard and we have to be ‘one in the society. On some occasions, you have the tendency to vacillate and thereby take long time to do a thing since you cannot come to a decision before judging the advantages and disadvantages of anything that you have to undertake or do. You may have sluggish circulation of blood, manifesting in cold hands and feet. The best remedy would be io have fresh air and good friendship. Itis advisable to walk amidst beautiful scenery with a pleasant companion. Do not be contemplating and planning over and over again; give rest to the mind and to the body.
 Then pleasant life is promised.
12. If the sub-lord of the Ascendant is in the constellation of the planet in PISCES:-
 You have a very bad tendency of brooding over things and becoming gloomy whenever matters don't come up as you expect.
 All can't have artesian wells. You have to exert yourself, pump and get water. You also mistake that to whomsoever you have rendered help, they have not reciprocated to you properly in time. Therefore, whatever you want to do for the people, do it without any thought of reward of gratitude. You are sensitive timid and afraid of any trouble, There is also another defect in you; you approach friends, one after another, for advice, but later , you do not make use of any of the advice offered to you; you pay no attention to it. It is really, very bad. You try to gain sympathy from others by narrating your series of troubles. This ultimately weakness your position.
 You are aware that you are moody. So whatis the use of worrying for sometime and becoming normal again. Never be little yourself
nor be slow in your action; have confidence, be pushful; be generous; you need not be over-liberal; don't entertain hopes on other's promises, as some of them may be fulfilled, whereas others may be found to take promises. Don't be building castles in the air. You should also realise that it is really very difficult for your partner to understand you and equally difficult to cope up with you. Have a control upon your romantic life. Otherwise like a tudderless boat, you will be drifted on into the sea of sensual pleasures. Every wind which blows, will bring you new experiences to spoil you more and more. You will be very sensitive to the influence of alcohol. Your health will be weak and muscular power deficient. Pay attention to cleanliness of your person, habitation and clothing. Try to have plenty of fresh air and sunshine. There will react favourably on the emotional and mental plan. A simple vegetarian diet is often advisable, include cereals and fruit. You may develop your psychic power. You will enjoy your life with good health having large number of friends. Peace and pleasure be upon you.
- VIMsHoTHaRI DASA —- UDU DASA)
 Calculation etc. is given in Reader No.1. Now in 3@ reader let us know the principle and the method to be followed —
 The following principle is to be strictyand universally applied.
 Suppose planet 'D’ rules the dasa.
(a) What is the nature of the planet? It indicates how the result happens; How a matter is fulfilled. If the dasa lord is Jupiter, and if the result is “gains i.e, profit” one has lawfully by honest means that which oneis entitled to it, legitimately, by fair deal he gets. Butsuppose the dasa lord is Saturn, he gains by foul means, the unaccountable money by receiving under the table or by knocking away without other's knowledge or uttering falsehood or committing forgery, etc. Thus how one enjoys a result is indicated by the general nature of the planet who rules the period or sub period.
(b) Which houses are owned by dasa lord ‘D’? Which are the matters signified by those houses owned by dasa lord? (The dasa lord may own only one house or 2 or 3 depending upon the number of cusps falling in the signs owned by them). The source of the results is indicated by the house or house, owned by it. One may gain or lose, come out successful or meet with failure whatever it is, how this happens, who brings about such results who are the cause or which is the cause is clearly shown by the matters signified by the houses owned by Dasa Lord ‘D’.
(c) In which constellation is ‘D’ posited? Who rules this constellation? Which houses are owned by the lord of the constellation? What are the matters signified by those houses.
 The dasa-lord ‘D’ will predominantly offer those results indicated by the Houses owned by the lord of the constellation in which the dasa lord was posited at birth. Suppose a person is born in
 Leo. Taurus is the 10" sign. suppose Meridian is in the beginning of Taurus.
 Planets in Karthikai ruled by lagnadhipathi give or affect health depending on the sub. One comes out victorious or loses miserably depending on the sub. Planets in Rohini, give changes, threatens loss, or repays loan or invests on property, issues cheques or goes on pilgrimage lives in secluded place or is admitted in the hospital or given a room in the prison. Because
 Rohini is ruled by Moon who owns the 12 house. The sub decides whether the results are desirable or undesirable. Planets in Mrigasira governed by Mars owning houses 4 and 9 give higher education, processional study, etc.
 Suppose to the same Leo-born a planet is in the 12" house
 Cancer, in Ashlesha ruled by Mercury which owns the houses 2 and 11, he will make profits by speedy turn over, gets married, has a child born, makes new friendship and realises his ambition.
 Also imagine that a planet, even Mercury lord of 2 and 11, in exaltation in 2 to Leo, is in Hastham star, he enjoys such results- mostly-as is indicated by the planet in Rohini. [Readers must observe, study and ultimately agree. One sharebroker lost all he
had during Mercury dasa [Lagna Leo-Mercury in Virgo in 10 - 36’) (d) If the sub occupied by the planet ‘D’, the dasanatha, belongs to a benefic, there is no disappointment. The native realises it, But if the sub belongs to a malefic, in its conjoined period, it does harm, it denies, disappoints and causes anxiety, misery, etc.
(e) If the dasa lord is a benefic and the bhukti lord is also a benefic, as judged above, and if they form, according to Western system good aspects among themselves, one enjoys.
(f) Ifthe dasa lord ‘D’ is a benefic according to its occupation of a constellation belonging to a planet, owning good houses and if it forms evil aspect with another benefic, in the subperiod of the latter in the dasa of ‘D’, every matter will appear to be advantageous but ultimately, one cannot enjoy any beneficial result. It will cause delay; it will deny and disappoint.
(g) Ifthe dasa lord is a malefic by occupying the constellation of an evil planet, and the bhukti lord is similarly a melefic their good aspect is dangerous. Itis similar to two common enemies agree to cooperate with each other, become friends and both jointly attack the native.
(h) Ifthe dasa lord is a malefic and it receives adverse aspect from another malefic, the ultimate result is favourable to the native during their conjoined period.
(i) Do not be carried away by kendra, kona, shasta ashtama and so on. The above rules strictly observed will prove to be correct, provided the cusps are also included.
{j) The cusp receiving good aspect improves the matters of the house. The cusp exclusively indicates that house matters alone.
 But planets, in any manner connected with the matters of those houses have something more to offer, by lordship, by constellation, sub and house.
Thus, if one judges, one can get the clue even in twin births where their experiences are opposite.
 In the text books available, the literature is not sufficient to categorically predict the events in ‘A’ dasa and ‘B’ bhukti. Such rules which are available, unfortunately, fails in the case of births at short intervals in the same Lagna.
 The general rules given in Pa/adeepika by Mantreswara are as follows - (These are general. But K.R does not advocate these, as they fail)
1. Results of Dasas of Planets in Retrogression, own sign, Exaltation and Friend’s camp.
(1) During the period of the lord of Lagna, if Janma Lagna of the native be strong, he will enjoy prosperity like the waxing Moon.
 He will have increased wealth. His bodily strength will improve.
 He will have worldly fame. His complexion will be good.
(2) During the dasa of the Lord of the second house, the marriage of the native will take place if he is not already married.
 If married, good-natured daughters will be born. He will get wholesome food. His profession will be through, speech (Lawyer,
 Teaching and the like). He will be an eloquent speaker. He will acquire wealth.
(3) If the 3° bhava be strong, during the dasa of the Lord of that bhava, the native will receive help through brothers. He will be always hearing of good and auspicious things. He will act courageously. He will have good command over men. He will win the affections of great men. He will serve the public well. He will be in possession of virtuous qualities.
(4) During the period of the lord of the 4" house, the native will receive help through relatives. He will get good income " through land. He will have association with the other sex. He . will have pleasure through conveyance. He will acquire a new house and/or land. He will accumulate wealth. ‘His prestige in profession will increase.
(5) During the dasa of the lord of the 5" house, the native will be blessed with the birth of children. His relatives will be happy. He will give timely and useful advice to government. He will be the recipient of royal favour. He will get wholesome food.
 He will receive praise from great men in recognition of his good deeds and hospitality.
(6) During the period of the lord of the 6” house, he will overcome his enemies tactfully. He will be free from diseases:
 He will have a noble outlook. He will possess rare courage. He will have much wealth.
(7) During the period of the lord of the 7” house, the native will effect purchases of clothes and ornaments. He will have comfortable bedding. His vitality will increase and he will derive pleasure from sexual union. He will experience pleasure through celebration of marriages and other auspicious functions in the house. He will make journeys and pilgrimages.
(8) The period of the powerful lord of the 8" house will be marked by rise in the prestige of the native. He will clear his debts. He will have no quarrel with anybody. He will get income through cattle and servants.
(9) During the dasa of the lord or the 9" house, the native will enjoy good fortune and will have long-lasting happiness with his wife, children, grand-children and near and dear relatives.
 He will be favoured by Government. He will be engaged in virtuous acts and divine worship.
(10) During the period of the lord of the 10" house, the native will realise the successful completion of all acts of benefience commenced during the dasa. He will have honourable means of livelihood. He will engage himself in acts of lasting benefit to mankind and earn name and fame for himself.
(11) During the dasa of the lord of the 11" house, the native will enjoy unmitigated wealth. He will have happy association with friends, relatives and servants. He will experience increased happiness with his wife and children.
(12) During the pericd of the lord of the 12" house, the native will spend his wealth on virtuous acts. He will be inclined to do auspicious rites. He wiil be the recipient of royal favour.
2. Results of Dasas of Planets in inimical signs, in
 Debilitation, in eclipse and posited in 6", 8" or 12 House.
(1) During the dasa of the lord of lagna posited in 6", 8” or 12" house, the native will lead the life of a recluse. He will be bodily and mentally afflicted. He will engage himself in funeral rites. He will have change of place. He will have change of position for the worse. He will experience danger.
(2) The lord of the 2 house posited in 6", 8" or 12" house will make the native act foolishly in public and in the midst of respectable persons. He will indulge in harsh words. He will be miserable at home. He will receive discouraging letters. He will suffer from eye disease. He will incur wasteful expenditure. He will court royal displeasure.
(3) The lord of the 3 house posited in 6", 8 or 12"" house will cause during his dasa death or misery to the brothers of the native. Bad thoughts will always cross his mind. He will experience secret inimical! activities, insults and loss of pride through respected persons.
(4) During the dasa of the lord of the 4" house, if afflicted, the native's mother will suffer from illness. He will receive news of death of near and dear relatives. There will be sale of house orlands. There will be loss of cattle. He will experience danger through water.
(5) The lord of the 5" house, if weak, will cause danger, to the child of the native. He will experience mental affliction. He will be the victim of deception. He will have disease of the stomach. He will incur royal displeasure. There will be loss of energy. He will'be roaming about.
(6) The lord of a weak 6" house, during his dasa will cause fear through robbers. There will be danger and imprisonment.
 He will commit sinful acts. He will be engaged in servile acts.
He will receive insults. He will have bodily injury. He will experience loss of prestige.
(7) The lord of the 7" house, devoid of strength, will cause to the native, during his period, sorrow through his son-in-law.
 He will be away from his wife. He will experience danger through women. He will evince a desire for indecent things. He will suffer from disease in his private part. He will feel the strain of out-door life.
(8) During the dasa of the lord of 8" house, if weak, the native will experience mental anguish and depression. He will be arrogant and jealous. He will be stricken with poverty. He will be roaming about aimlessly. He will experience loss of prestige.
 He will suffer from illness, shame and danger.
(9) A weak 9" house lord during his period will cause evil results to the native. He will incur the wrath of his family deity.
 Danger will be caused to his wife and children, father and preceptor. He will be disposed to do vile acts. He will be stricken with poverty.
(10) A weak 10" house lord during his period will make the native engage himself in unproductive and fruitless activities. The native will experience loss of reputation. He will have evil disposition. He will live in a foreign place. He will undergo danger through indulging in ignoble deeds.
(11) During the dasa of the lord of the 11" house the native will hear unpleasant and sinful news. He will experience misery through brothers. He will be stricken with poverty. He will suffer from ear trouble.
(12) During the dasa of the lord of 12 there will be all round decrease in wealth and prosperity to the native. He will suffer from increased illness. He will experience loss of reputation. He will undergo danger like the waning Moon.
3. (1) A planet that has attained Vargottamamsa will do good during its dasa. If that planet is eclipsed or in debilitation, mixed results will be enjoyed during the dasa of that planet. If
that planet happens to be the lord of 6", 8" or 12" house then bad results are to be predicted.
(2) During the dasa of a matefic planet, the bhukti of the lord of the 3’, 5" and 7" star to the star of birth and the bhukti of the lords of 1* and 8" houses will cause misery through robber and the enemy and the native will undergo lot of troubles.
(3) Counting from the Dasa of the native at the time of birth, if the 4 dasa be Saturn, the 6" Jupiter, the 5" Mars or Rahu, then these dasas will prove harmful. Likewise, the dasa of a planet at the end of a Rasi (i.e. if posited at 30°) and the dasa of the Lord of 6", 8" or 12" house will be harmful.
(4) If Capricorn happens to be the 10" or 11" house and if
 Mars were to be posited therein which is its house of exaltation, then during the dasa of this planet the native will have all-round prosperity, victory over enemies and vehicular comforts. He will command an army, will attain high status in life and will have a charitable disposition.
 Note: Natives born in Aries and Pisces will have Capricorn as the 10" &11" houses respectively. If in their horoscope Mars were to be posited in Capricorn and if Mars dasa, be not the 5" dasa, then the results enumerated above will be enjoyed by the native during Mars dasa.
(5) If Venus is posited in his exaltation sign Pisces and if
 Pisces happened to be the 12,10" or 11™ house then, during
 Venus dasa, if he is not eclipsed or associated with malefics, the native will enjoy good reputation, will possess great wisdom and intellect, will obtain costly ornaments and pearls and will be very wealthy and popular.
 Note. The above result is applicable to the natives who have Aries, Taurus or Gemini as Lagna.
(6) Benefic planets in debilitation or posited in the 6", 8" or 12" house will give inauspicious results during their dasas.
 Malefic planets similarly situated will give inescapable misery during their Dasas.
Note: From the above the inference is that the inauspicious results effacted by benefic planets could be warded off by performance of Shanti whereas the misery caused by malefic planets will certainly have to be experienced and cannot be warded off by’performance of Shantis, etc.
(7) During the Bhukti of a planet who is inimical to Dasa lord or who is posited in enemy's camp of the Dasa lord or who is inimical to Lagna lord the native will experience fear from enemy.
 There will be change of dwelling or profession. Even the erstwhile friend will turn out to be an enemy.
(8) During the period of the Bhuktinatha, the result experienced will be that of the Bhava in which the Bhukthinatha is placed, counted from the house of the Dasanatha. If the enemy’s camp of the Dasa lord happens to be 6", 8" or 12" house, the native will have inauspicious results. Ifin other houses, the results will be good.
(9) If a planet is posited in his house of exaltation,
 Moolathrikona, own house, friend’s house, enemy's camp or in debilitation, the auspicious results experienced by the native will be full, three quarters, half quarter, very little and negligible, respectively. If the planet is to give inauspicious results, then the proportion given above will be reversed, i.e. in the house of exaltation inauspicious result is zero, in Moolathrikona very little, own house one-fourth friend’s house one-half, enemy’s camp three quarters and in debilitation full. Further, if the planet is eclipsed, the result that will be obtained will be as for the planet in debilitation.
(10) Death will occur to the native during the period of the planet which is the weakest of the following and when Saturr. transists evil signs : -
(i) Saturn, Gulika, Rahu, Lord of 22" Drekkana (counted from the Drekkana at the time of the birth), Lord of 8 or,
(ii) Lord of Navamsa of Saturn, Gulika, Rahu, Lord of 22°
 Drekkana and Lord of 8.
(11) Death will occur to the native during the period in the strongest of the following and when Jupiter transits the trine of the sign and navamsa of the lord of 8.
 Lord of sign and navamsa in which the lord of 8 is posited, lord of 22"¢ Drekkana and Janma Drekkana.
(12) During the dasas of Jupiter, if the lord of Chandra lagna and the lord of Janmalagna occupy kendra positions, the result will be enjoyed in the middle of the dasa. Planets situated in
 Prishtodaya Rasis will give their results at the engl of the Dasa, those in Udayodhaya rasi in the middle of the Dasa and those in
 Sirshodaya rasis at the beginning of the Dasa,
 Note: (i) Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Sagittarius and Capricorn are Prishtodaya Rasis.
(ii) Gemini, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio and Aquarius are
 Sirshodaya Rasis.
(iii) Pisces is Ubadhaya Rasi
(13) The Dasa lord transiting in a Bhava counted from the
 Chandra Lagna happens to be his own house, exaltation house or friend’s camp then he gives strength to that bhava. Further, in nativity, if the Dasa lord was strong, he will give strength during his dasa in whichever bhava he transits.
(14) In nativity if the Dasa lord is eclipsed or is in debilitation or posited in enemy's camp, then during his dasa, he spoils the bhava in which he transits, counted from Chandra lagna.
(15) If Moon, during his transit passes through the Dasa lord's exaltation sign, friend’s sign or the 3%, 6", 10", 11", 5", 9" and 7" house of the Dasanatha, he will improve the auspicious results.
 If he transits in other houses the results will be reversed.
(16) When the Bhuktinatha, during transit, passes its house of debilitation or enemy's camp or is eclipsed, he will cause misery. On the other hand, if the Bukthinatha, during its transit, passes through its exaltation house or own house or if he is retrograde, he will give auspicious results.
(17) When Sun transits the exaltation sign of the lord of the benefic dasa the native will get the good results of the dasa lord.
 Similarly is the case of Jupiter's transit. On the other hand, when
 Sun transits the debilitation sign or enemy's camp of the lord of the malefic dasa, the native will experience bad results of the dasa lord.
(18) Rahu will give good or bad results according to the good or bad effects attributed to the planet with which it is conjoined.
 The planet that is conjoined with Rahu even if he be a benefic will cause misery particularly at the end of the dasa.
(19) The 2™4 house and the 7 house are death inflicting houses. If the lords of the 2™ or 7" house be strong and if posited in the same 2™ or 7" house then that planet will cause death during his dasa. Ifthe lord of 8" or 12" house be very weak and if posited in 2°¢ or 7" house this planet will cause death during his dasa.
(20) If the Lord of a quadrant be a benefic he will give bad results during his dasa. On the other hand, if he be a malefic, good results will accrue. If the lord of 3, 6 or 11 even though he be a benefic he will cause only misery during his dasa. If the lord of the 8'" house happens to be the Lagna lord also, then he will give good results during his dasa.
(21) Kendra lord posited in Kona and a kona lord posited in
 Kendra will cause yoga. These two planets during their dasas and bhuktis will act in co-operation with each other and will give yoga. (22) All planets do not give good or bad results attributed to their bhava during their dasas or bhuktis.
(23) All planets will give good or bad results associated with their dasas in the bhuktis of planets that are conjoined with them, or aspect them. Also results similar to those associated with the
 Dasa lord will be experienced in the Bhuktis of planets that are by lordship placed similar to dasa lord.
(24) The association of a strong quadrant or trine lord will cause yoga even though these planets become malefic by virtue of their lordship of the other house.
(25) If a strong kendra lord gets the association of any one of kona lord, then the associated planet gives raja yoga.
(26) If the same planet be the quadrant as well as the trine lord, tren that planet cause raja yoga. If, in addition to this, this planet gets the association of another trine lord, there is certainly no doubt about the raja yoga result.
(27) Planets, even though they become malefic by lordship of the 3°, 6", 8" or 11" house, will give raja yoga results according to the results indicated in their Bhukthis if they get the association of the yoga - producing planets.
(28) A trine lord, if he does not happen to own the 3”, 6" or 41" house also, will give auspicious results during the sub period of kendrathipathi even though the planet does not get the association of the kendrathipathi.
(29) Jupiter and Venus by virtue of their lordship of houses 1, 4, 7 and 10 are strong in doing harm. The harmful effects are intensified if they also happen to occupy Marakasthanas 2 and 7; Mercury as lord of Kendra is next to Jupiter and Venus in the order of strength in doing harm. Next to Mercury in strength to do harm is Moon. But malefics, if they happen to own houses 1, 4,7 and 10 will increase the good effects.
(30) Rahu and Ketu, if posited in Kendra or Kona, will give tajayoga based on the association of the Lord of Kendra or Kona with the planets.
(31) Rahu and Ketu, if posited in an auspicious rasi and unassociated with any other planet, will give rajayoga results during the period of benefic planets. (32) During the period of planets producing raja yoga the beginning of the raja yoga will take place. This beginning will be improved upon during the sub period of malefic planets. (33) The planet that is posited in the 8" house, the planet that aspects the 8" house, the lord of the house where Gulika is posited all these will cause misery. Among these planets the weakest planet will cause danger during its period and sub period.
(34) The period of planet that has left its exaltation sign and is in a house on its way to its depressing sign is termed Avarohi.
 The period of a planet that is posited in its exaltation sign or friend's camp is termed Madhya. The period of a planet that has left its depression sign and is in a house on its way to its exaltation sign is termed Arohini. The period of a planet in its debilitation sign, enemy's camp, in debilitation navamsa or inimical navamsa is termed Athama.
(35) Death will be caused during the period of the week planet by the planet posited in the 12" bhava and the lord of the 12" bhava.
 While judging the results, occasionally interpretations are found to be incorrect. Doubts arise. So they are discussed below.

# KENDRA ADHIPATHYANA
 Q: - What is Kendra Adhipathyam? Are benefics, by nature, owning Kendra signs, always evil in their dasas? Do they invariably end one’s life?
 Answer: “Kendra” is a Sanskrit word. It is also called
 Chatustaya and Kantaka. The sign in which the Ascendant (Lagna) falls, the fourth sign counted from the birth sign, the seventh sign from the ascendant (Lagna) and the 10" sign counted from the ascendant are termed Kendra signs or Kendra houses. It may also be used with reference to the position of the sign occupied by Moon or other planets. On such occasions, it is said that a planet is in a Kendra to Moon or in a Kendra to any other planet. By that, it is meant that they are conjoined with it in the same sign, or in the 4", 7" or 10 signs counted from the sign occupied by the Moon or any other planet.
(1) The exact longitude of the Ascendant in a sign or that of the
 Moon is not at all taken for calculation. But only the sign in which the Ascendant falls is taken whether it is zero degree 1 minute or 29 degrees 59 minutes in that sign. So also when counted from Moon orany other planet, only the sign occupied, will be taken for judgment
and not the Bhava (the House). In most of the horoscopes, the first part of a sign may be included in a House (or Bhava); Whether the planet is in the first part or in the second part of the Sign and jin whichever house it is, it is not at all taken to find Kendrasthana, but only the sign in which the planet is found. For example: There are two births. One is born in Mithuna Lagna in the 29" degree and the other in the 3 degree in Pisces (Meena) Lagna. The former has
 Moon in the second degree in Sagittarius (Dnanus), and the latter has Moonin the 25" degree in Gemini (Mithuna). In the first instance,
 Moon is said to be in the 7" Kendra even though the longitude is only 153 degrees and in the other case, the longitude is 112 degrees and Moon is said to be in the fourth Kendra.
 In the first birth chart, as Gemini happens to be the Lagna, the Kendra houses are Gemini (the First), Virgo (the Fourth),
 Sagittarius (the Seventh) and Pisces (Meena the Tenth). In the second case, Pisces the Lagna is called Lagna Kendra, Gemini the fourth, Virgo the seventh and Sagittarius the tenth Kendra.
 Meridian according to one’s latitude of birth may fall in the neighbouring sign to the tenth sign; yet the tenth sign alone should be taken as the Kendra sign. For example, one may be born in the second degree in Cancer (Kataka Lagna) at Lucknow.
 Actually, the meridian will be 24 degrees (Meena) Pisces. But, yet Mesha should be taken as the 10" sign or otherwise called
 Dasama Kendra House and not Pisces (Meena) as ca/culations are made, sign to sign and not house (Bhava) to house.
 Therefore, when one counts the Kendrasthanas from Lagna, the Ascendant, the fourth sign, the seventh sign and the tenth sign are the four Kendra houses.
 Each sign has its own lord and the owners or 1, 4, 7 and 10" houses are called as Kendra-Athi-Pathis. When one desires to assess the nature of a planet, whether it is a benefic or a malefic by owning a Kendra house, it is to be counted only from the
 Lagna and not from the Moon or any other planet.
 It is said that Jupiter (Guru), Venus (Sukra), the waxing Moon (Chandra) and the unafflicted Mercury (Budha) are the natural
benefics and if they happen to own either the first or the fourth or the seventh or the tenth house, they turn out to be unfavourable in their disposition. It is also added that if they occupy either the second or the 7 house, they cause untoward results and death to the native.
 It is further stressed that Jupiter and Venus are more evil than Moon and Mercury when they own the Kendra signs.
 The malefics by nature, Sun (Surya), waning Moon, Mars (Sewai), afflicted Mercury (Budha), and Saturn by owning the
 Kendra houses become auspicious and will offer desirable results.
 Kendrathipatya Dosha refers only to one’s health and longevity, whereas it will not prove to be either ineffective or undesirable as regards the results indicated by the houses they own.
 Ascendant denotes one’s health and longevity. Lord of the
 Ascendant will invariable protect the native and improve his health and position provided he does not occupy the evil houses i.e., sixth or eighth or twelfth. Lord of the 4" house indicates one’s permanent possession, one’s vehicle and one’s mother. The 7" house shows the characteristics of the partner in life, the time of marriage, and other matters indicated by the 7" house. The 10" house indicates one’s profession, name, fame, reputation, honour, ancestral property, etc.
 When one does research, taking the horoscopes of people born in Mithuna (Gemini) and in Virgo (Kanni), Mercury is considered to be a Kendhrathipathi by owning the Kendra houses, one and four for Gemini-born and one and ten for Virgo; Jupiter (Guru) becomes the owner of the 7“ and the 10" houses to Gemini and 4" as well as the 7" houses to Virgo. People born in Gemini generally take up a profession indicated by Jupiter being lord of 10 and prosper, especially during Jupiter's Dasa. One is born in
 Mrigasirisha Nakshathra third pada when Gemini was rising in the east. When he completed 22 years during Guru dasa, he appeared for the competitive examination and passed the |.A.S.
at the first attempt itself. He got married at his age of 26 during
 Mercury sub-period he had a child born in Visaka Nakshathra (Jupiter's star in Venus sign Libra). The birth of the child coincided with his promotion. During Mars sub-period he enjoyed another promotion and during Rahu sub-period he had tne opportunity to go overseas. Horoscopes of such favourable experiences show that Kendrathipathya does not make a planet necessarily evil, offering only adverse and unfortunate results, even though there are a few instances of death during the Dasa or Bhukti of the Kendradhipathi.
 Many with their Ascendant in Virgo (Kanni) having Jupiter in the 2™¢ or in the 7 house have out-lived Jupiter Dasa.
 Similarly, many people born in Aquarius (Kumba), Leo (Simha) and Scorpio (Vrischika) have Venus in the second or in the 7" house. They also enjoyed satisfactorily during Venus Dasa and a few are now running Sun Dasa, a few Moon Dasa, and a few
 Mars Dasa, etc. Therefore, one need not unnecessarily entertain any fear when an astrologer repeats the proverbial
 Kendrathipathya Dosha of Jupiter and Venus and says that they are very evil and one will not survive these Dasas. They will be at a loss if they come across with people out-living such so-called Kendrathipati’s Dasa. Dy. Prime Minister Shri Morarji
 Bhai Desai aged 75, Dr. A. Lakshmanaswami Mudaliar aged 85,
 Sir Dr. A. Ramaswamy Mudaliar aged 85.
 A person born in Aquarius Ascendant (Kumba Lagna) and
 Poorvabatra Patha (Purattadhi) Nakshatra third Pada (Kumba
 Rasi) was able to have his own car only when he entered into
 Venus Dasa (who owns the fourth Kendra house) at his age of 52, whereas in the earlier Dasas he could not own even a bicycle.
 How far Venus as Lord of four has denied him the beneficial results which it indicates by owning the 4" house, is for you, to judge.
 Another person born in Scorpio as Ascendant and in Jyeshta
 Nakshathra third pada gets married during Venus Dasa, Jupiter sub period (Bhukti-apahara) and Mercury sub sub-period
(anthara) with a bride born in Poorvashada Nakshathra, Lord of which is Venus. Has Venus as Lord of seven denied him the pleasure through marriage in his Dasa? Also who is the lord of the constellation Poorvashada in which the bride is born? Is it not Venus? Yes, as the lord of 7, it has done its good, by offering the person a beautiful wife born in its own star.
 It is known that the Lord of the eighth house is the worst evil but the exception is that the lord of 8" house cannot be a malefic if it is also owns the Ascendant or Lagna (Jathakchandrika) when the 8" house indicates one’s longevity, death, etc. When such an evil can be warded off by owning the first house, why will not
 Kendrathipatya Dhosha be mitigated if a planet owning either the 4" or the tenth house also happens to be the lord of the
 Ascendant or Lagna? We are of strong conviction that planets owning the Ascendant and not ill-posited can never do harm, but ever be a saviour just as a father will protect his child, whether he is a butcher or a robber.
{tis also mentioned that a planet becomes evil by owning 3 or 6" or 8" or 11" house; if they have any connection with
 Rajayoga Athipathis either as Lord of 9 or Lord of 10, they also will cause beneficial results in their sub-periods, in the Dasa of the Rajayoga Athipathi. From this, one can understand that Lord of 10 is capable of rendering the evil planets favourable. Lord of 10 is to offer the most desirable and lucky results causing
 Rajayoga. Therefore, if they own any other Kendra house they not only offer beneficial results indicated by the 10" house but also reduce the evil attributed to the results of the other Kendra house. For example, to Gemini Lagna, Jupiter is Lord of 7 and 10. He will invariably do good to the native in matters relating to the 10" house and to a great extent modify any evil indicated by the 7" house, if Jupiter is not afflicted otherwise.
 Therefore, only when they own the houses 4 and 7 they may be considered as evil for one’s health as well as longevity and not to the other results denoted by the 4" or the 7" house.
| have heard people saying that the birth of a child at an auspicious time may modify the troublesome period of the father and bring him fortune; the favourable and the lucky period to wife will compensate for the miserable one of the partner; marrying a girl in whose horoscope birth of children is strongly indicated, will be advantageous for a man of evil influence unfavourable to the begetting of children. What is your opinion?
 Answer: | differ, it is not correct to say that the varying fortunes of the parents get modified by the birth of the child.
 Whatever a native is to enjoy or suffer from, is already pre- destined, and it will run its own course. Birth of children on a particular date is also already found in his horcscope. If one enjoys luck only after the birth of a particular child, it is clear that according to his own horoscope, the evil days has ended, and lucky days have started; unless this statement is correct, he cannot have a child at the commencement of his fortunate days. The birth of the child at the auspicious moment and the beginning of his brilliant times are indicated in his map. If fate is otherwise termed as, something written on the head by Brahma, then the Creator will not be going on changing the fate as and when one elects a propitious time to undertake any venture or by marrying or by birth of children, etc. Once written is never erased or modified.
 If a person is to suffer, while his wife has to enjoy favourable results, according to their horoscopes, each will have the results as indicated by the planets at the time of their birth, and, one cannot cance! the other’s fortune or misfortune. If ‘A’ has married ‘B’ and ‘A’ runs the most unfavourable period, whereas ‘B’ has a lucky time, and if both were to go to races and bet, ‘A’ will be going on losing, whereas ‘B’ will gain. The loss of ‘A’ cannot be prevented by 'B’. Nor the benefits to 'B’ can be robbed away by the evil influence of ‘A’.
 If the husband's chart denies children and the wife’s chart promises many issues according to the prediction offered by an
Astrologer, we have to say that the so-called Astrologer has not understood the science of Astrology, or there is something wrong somewhere. Anyhow, when an expert Astrologer were to scrutinise the horoscopes, he will boldly declare that both the horoscopes indicate birth of children or the children born, may be a ‘ara Putra” or natural children. But, to say that marrying a lady whose horoscope promises children whereas that of her husband has no clear indication of it, is not wise.
 Therefore, one’s luck or ill-luck cannot be altered or modified, by electing a propitious time for the commencement of any venture, or by marrying one, or by birth of children, and so on.
 Everything is an occurrence as predestined.
 It is correct to predict that a native will go overseas at the age of 26, and he will have a child at his 25" year of age, whereas it is not wise to say that because the native had a child at a brilliant time at his age of 25, it is due to the luck of the child the father had the fortune to go overseas. In the wife’s chart, it will be shown that the husband will go overseas; in the boy's chart, planet will portray that the father will go overseas at his birth anniversary, and in his own chart, he will find that he has to go overseas at the age of 26.
 If the results may be compared to that of a flower, then the indications from each chart, may be compared tothe light thrown from the torch (horoscope). Nobody's light can change the flower to fruit or to seed. Every light wi.l show that it is a flower. Similarly, every horoscope will indicate the same result and never change it.
 Excepting Sun and Moon, each planet is assigned two houses. If a planet, owning two houses, occupies a particular sign in the chart of a person, and if its dasa operates, what will be the nature of the results enjoyed by him? Is it the result of the houses owned by the planet, or that occupied by it? Or is it the. result of the first house which it owns in the first half of its period
and that of the other house, ruled by it in the second half? The results of which house will be favourable and which will prove to be evil? Or will both be good or both be bad?
 Answer: Sun owns the house Leo (Simha) Moon rules
 Cancer (Kataka). Mars governs Aries (Mesha), and Scorpio (Vrischikam), Mercury is assigned Gemini (Mithuna) and Virgo (Kanni), Jupiter governs Sagittarius (Dhanus) and Pisces (Meena)
 Venus rules over Taurus (Rishaba) and Libra (Thulam), and Saturn owns Capricorn (Makaram) and Aquarius (Kumba). Rahu and
 Ketu are omitted by the Westerners but Hindus include them, though they have not agreed in allotting any house for them.
 There is difference of opinion about their ownership. Let us continue ourselves within these seven planets who also rule the seven days in the week.
 The owners of a house indicate the source of certain results, as each house governs certain affairs. So, it is necessary to note for what houses counted from the ascendant, the planet in question is the lord, whichever house it may accidentally occupy, at the time of the birth of the native. For example, to Vrischika
 Lagna, Saturn is the lord of the third and the fourth houses, and whatever may be the house it occupies, Saturn has, by its lordship, the strength to give the results through the sources signified by the third and the fourth houses (i.e. brothers and mother; short journeys and permanent place of residence; communication and transport respectively). The same Saturn if it is in its own constellation to Mithuna Lagna-Gemini Ascendant, will be the lord of the 8" and 9" houses, and so Saturn as lord of 8" indicates mental worries, difficulties, sickness and mode of death whereas lord of 9 it shows Father (according to Hindus which, is to be followed), higher education, long journey, overseas, etc. In the case of Scorpio or Vrischika Lagna Saturn in its own constellation shows gain or loss, through brother as lord of 3, and through mother as lord of 4. To Gemini-borns gain or loss through father as lord 9, and through insurance, bonus, gratuity, legacy, etc., as lord of 8 are indicated. Also friendship or enmity with such a relative, is indicated by lordship. Favourable
or unfavourable results are to be judged by the house which it occupies. Here, the question is whether it is favourable to the native of the chart or adverse to him; and also to the matters or relatives indicated by the houses owned by the planet? One is to note the various houses owned by a planet and include this also into account while interpreting the results.
 The results of the house occupied by a planet will be indicated more by the planet which occupies the house, than by that which owns the house. In giving the results of a house, the planet occupying it is considered as the strongest. The owner is taken as next only in strength. The results of the house occupied by the planet will get modified by the planet which aspects it, and also by the planet which is conjoined with the lord and which aspects the lord of the house.
lf a planet occupies a sign which is the 6" or the 8” or the 42! from the sign which it owns, it loses strength to offer such results as are indicated by that house, but will give results just opposite to the indications of the house owned by it.
1. Ifthe 6" house indicates dispute and drain of purse, the 6" therefrom shows harmony, friendship and profit which is the 41" from the ascendant. if the 8 house denotes obstacles, hindrance and difficulties, the 8" to the eighth denotes “Sahaya’”, assistance and courage. If the 12" house shows loss the 12” to the 12" house shows gains, by that, it may be observed that planets occupying a sign which is 6 or 8 or 12 to what it owns, will offer results opposite to what they indicate by ownership.
 Lord of 1 shows health. If he occupies the 6" house, it indicates ill-health to the native. If it occupies the 8" longevity is not much promised. If it is 12, he will spend away whatever he has, and the planet does not allow him to continue to live in his own.place and keep up the bank position.
2. The occupant is stronger than the owner of the sign:
a. only when the lord of the sign does not gain more strength by occupying its exalted sign or by being
 Vargothama
b. when the lord of the sign is not conjoined with the planet or is occupying its other sign, and
c. when the occupant is exalted, whether the owner is in its own sign, or exaltation or Vargothamamsa.
3. The occupant is weaker than the owner:
a. if the occupant is in its enemy's camp or neecha, i.e., debilitated.
b. If the lord of the sign is exalted and the occupant is , not,
c. If the lord of the sign is conjoined with the planet in its own sign and the occupant is not exalted there i.e., the owner is in swakshethra, whereas the occupant is neither exalted nor Vargothama there.
 For example, if Moon and Jupiter are conjoined in cancer (Katakam), moon, even though itis in its own sign, yet the exalted
 Jupiter is stronger in giving the results (in its period) indicated by the house Cancer (Katakam) than what Moon can do in its period.
 Mars and Moon conjoined in Cancer denote that Moon is stronger.
 Moon's exaltation in Taurus (Rishaba) and Jupiter exalted in
 Cancer (Kataka) and Venus exalted in Pisces (Meena) in a horoscope, indicate that Jupiter, the tenant, will give the results of the house Cancer in his period, much more than Moon who rules Cancer; the results indicated by Taurus to that native will be offered by Moon, as he occupies, to a greater extent, in its period, than Venus, the lord of the Sign; Venus bestows on him the results indicated by Pisces (Meena) to a greater extent, that Jupiter who owns the house, in Venus periods, than what he enjoys in Jupiter's periods and sub-periods. That is, if the strength of the planets remains more or less the same by their, occupation, then the occupant is really stronger than the owner in offering the results of the house to that person, whenever its periods and sub-periods operate.
The results of the house given by the planet occupying a house will be modified by its nature, ownership of the house, and other connections, like conjunction with, or aspect from other planets.
 Nature of the planet: If lord of 3 is in 11 and its period is running, then he will gain (11% house) through his brother (3'° house). If the owner of the third house is Saturn, then the brother who helps him will be economical and calculative (nature of
 Saturn), whereas if the third house is ruled by Mars, the help will be received with pleasant surprise and the brother will be extravagant, and over-liberal (nature of Mars). Jupiter as lord-of 2 in 11 indicates gains by lawful means (nature of Jupiter), whereas Saturn as lord of 2 in 11, may give profit by fair or foul means (nature of Saturn). So, the nature of the planer also should be included when one interprets the results.
 Ownership of various houses: Again the ownership of a house suggests, through which source he will have the gain or loss. If lord of 5 in 11, one can predict that at the time he runs the period of the lord of the 5 house who is in 11, the person will have the gains through speculation or cinema or pleasurable pursuits or through children, as these are indicated by the 5" house. So, the occupant offers the results of the house it occupies including the above indication.
 Let us see how the results of the house it owns, will improve or get destroyed.
 If it is either weaker or stronger than the planet, occupying its house, or if there is no planet in its house then one is to note the relative disposition between this planet and the houses it owns. If it is not in 6 or 8 or 12 from the house which it owns, it will give the results of the house in the manner which the house indicates. But if it occupies a sign 6 or 8 or 12 from the house’it owns, the planet will give adverse results to the matters indicated by the house.
 Suppose one’s Lagna is Scorpio (Vrischika) and Saturn, the lord of the third and the fourth houses, occupies the 11" house
 Kanni (Virgo), then the matters indicated by the third house, will
flourish, as it is in the ninth from the third house, and it is a very favourable disposition. Bur during the period of Saturn the matters indicated by the fourth house will suffer. Fourth house indicates mother, the eighth from it is the 11" house. So, mother will have difficulties and worries though the native will gain then through brother. The native may study in a school and he may receive a letter from the mother that she is ill, and also money order remitted by her, whereas the younger brother may write saying, that he has got a seat in the college for higher studies, or that he is selected to go overseas. Here the mother will send money and not brother, because it is only to the fourth house, the 11t"house happens to be the eighth. But to the third house, it is the ninth.
 His purse cannot be drained. Brother and correspondence (indicated by the third house) give him pleasure, (shown by the 11" house).
 Further, one having lord of 3 in 11, may have gains through editing, publishing, publicity, correspondence, or working as a sales representative, agent, or by making short journeys or through youngsters and neighbours. Further the third house results also will thrive, and brother will have prosperity. But the lord of the fourth house, while occupying the 11" house, is in the 8" from its own. In such cases, the native, no doubt, will gain through the 4" house matters i.e., he may gain through permanent
 Possessions, through mother (according to Hindus, which alone is to be followed) and also by dealing in vehicles, etc., or through
 Produce of mine. But mother's health will be affected and her mind will be disturbed.
 Similarly, Saturn as lord of 6 and 7 occupying the 11" house shows that he may come out successful in the litigation, which will end in that planet's sub-period, whereas his partner may have a child born at that time, as 11" house is the 5" from the 7".
 Therefore one has to note whether the planet which occupies a beneficial house in the chart, is in the 6" or the 8" or the 12” from the house which it owns or occupies a favourable position from its house.
If the house occupied happens to be 6 or 8 or 12 from the house which it rules, the indications of the house which it governs, will turn contrary; otherwise-through the matters indicated by the other house the native will gain.
 If the house occupied is favourable to one of the houses owned by the occupant, and unfavourable to the other, then, not only will he gain through the house to which the planet is in a favourable position, but also the results of the house, owned by the planet, will prosper.
 But if the house occupied is unfavourable to its own house, the results of the house owned will suffer, deteriorate and the relatives, indicated by that house, will undergo difficulties, when the native runs the period of the planet. These results will not operate throughout one's lifetime. They can be enjoyed only when its period runs.
 Ifthe planet may be compared to a light, the house it occupies to that of a coloured slide (the colour depending on the house), then, the extent of the result will depend on the strength of the planet, and the source of the result will be indicated by both the houses which it owns, and its Karakathvam, i.e., certain matters and events of which the planet is the chief governor.
 The nature of the result will depend on the house it occupies.
 As per Krishnamurthi Padhdhati, the nature depends mainly on the lord of the constellation. The occupation will show gain or loss, whereas the house owned shows the source. It is similar to the light which illuminates the slide, and throws that colour of the slide, indicating the house occupied.
 House — Vacant: If a house is not occupied at all, then the owner of the house, the planets aspecting the house, indicate the results of the house. They will get modified by the planets which conjoin or aspect the lord of the house. According to
 Krishnamurti Padhdhati, planets in the constellation of the lord of the house will bestow the matters signified by that vacant house.
A father is born in Virgo Ascendant (Kanni Lagna) and he runs Sani Dasa (Saiurn’s period). His Nakshatra is Chithra 1* pada, and Moon oécupies the Ascendant. at the time of birth,
 Saturn was in Aries and’in the 8" house. In this instance, one is to interpret as follows:-
 Saturn owns Capricorn and it is the 5"" house from the Lagna,
 Virgo. By occupying Aries, it squares the 5" house. (Various authors have declared that planets, evil by nature occupying the 4" or the 8" house, spoil the results of the house and will do harm to that native). Hence, difficulties experienced by the person, will be related to, and signified by, the 5" house. Thus he loses in games and incurs loss through his children, especially the first issue. His son will not keep mental equilibrium and good health. He will be worried about his self-acquisition. (Saturn also owns the second from the 5" house). Saturn as lord of 6 in the 8", forms favourable aspect with its house from the 8", and hence he will have to raise loan, and he will not find it difficult to do so, as the disposition is favourable.
If a planet owns both the house of profit and that of loss in its period, during the sub-period of benefical planets, he will then gain, and during the sub-period of the evil planets, he will lose.
 Some divide the period into two halves, and predict that, during the first half of the period, the planet will be giving such results as are indicated by the house which is nearer to the ascendant, counting the houses from lagna, 1, 2, 3 and so on and the second half of the period will indicate the results governed by the other house. For example, if Jupiter owns the 5" and the 8" houses to the ascendant Leo (Simha), it is incorrect to foresee that the first half of Jupiter's period will be good, because it will be the results of the 5" house, Dhanus-Sagittarius, and the second half of the period will be harmful, as it is the effect of the 8" house
 Pisces. actually, he has not enjoyed anything during the first half of Jupiter’s period, except during Mercury sub-period. Whereas
 Venus, Moon and Rahu sub-periods, covering most of the second half of Jupiter's Dasa, proved to be very auspicious, by giving marriage, promotion, children, voyage with family to foreign land and satisfactory increase in income, by keeping him in good cheer, and by making him feel jubilant, buoyant, and contented.
 Some are of the opinion that the beneficial effects which result-by owning a favourable house, will get cancelled, as it owns the unfavourable one also. This statement is not correct. He will have both the results experienced. He will gain through one source and also lose through the other source. In his ledger, he should have two entries, one crediting to his account and another debiting him. It will not pass on without giving both the results. The ultimate balance sheet may show zero. Ifone house denotes health, and the other house threatens accident, during its period, and the sub-period of an evil planet, he will meet with an accident and have some injuries and during the sub- period of a beneficial planet, he will have the cure and maintain good health. The good results of a house will not get cancelled by the evil results of the bad house, if a planet owns both the houses.
 Malefics in 4, 6, 8 and 12 to any house, will destroy the indications of the house, whereas planets in other houses, improve the matters of the house.
    - (DouBT4
 Will a native born at a time, having Raja yoga in his horoscope, enjoy the yoga results throughout his life? Does the
 Raja yoga promise no difficulties to him and will he lead a princely and aristocratic life throughout?
 Answer: Hindus alone judge the prosperity of a horoscope considering the various yogas present in it. The ancient Hindu astrologers have mentioned (a) certain combinations of planets, or (b) lords of certain houses, or (c) the relative disposition of a planet to the ascendant, or to the Moon are termed as Rajayogas, and such combinations will produce most brilliant results. Those who are born in the royal family will become Emperors and those born in the middle class family will attain power, be popular and prosperous, enjoying all the fruits of life in this world.
 Itis regrettable that the readings given by a few of the present astrologers who reproduce the slokas relating to the yoga, without considering whether or not all, the conditions mentioned therein fit in with the charts they have taken for reading, and have translated those slokas only which are pleasing to the consultant at the time of going through them, and do not mention about the unpleasant things indicated therein. But the beneficial results predicted do not come to pass. People, having similar combinations of planets, will be quoted by these astrologers, to arouse confidence in the minds of the consultant, without going into greater detail as to why, in their cases, events came true, while in the case of the querist, similar favourable results have not come about in spite of strong planetary combinations, indicating Rajayoga and the other planets occupying different houses.
 There are a few important facts which are to be taken into consideration. A thorough study is needed.
1. One should note circumstances, environments and surroundings, under which a native is born.
2. Whether in his life time, he runs the Dasa of the planets which cause Rajayoga.
3. Whether there are planets in 6 or 8 or 12 to the planet producing Rajayoga.
4. Whether the planet causing Rajayoga is conjoined with
 Nodes, Rahu or Ketu or with lords of 6, 8 and 12.
5. Whether Rahu or Ketu occupies the sign owned by the planet which produces Rajayoga.
6. Whether he will live to the age at which the mutual dasas and bhuktis of the planets, producing Rajayoga will operate, and lord of 6 or 8 or 12 is not conjoined with them; or majority of planets are not in 6 or 8 or 12.
7. Whether the planet producing Rajayoga is not in the constellation (nakshathra) of the fords of 6 or 8 or 12, to them or in their sub.
 It is said that person who has Rajayoga by the combination of a few planets, will have the following results—
“The person who has his birth in Rajayoga will be a king who will be accompanied by elephants, horses, litters, palanquins and|the like, the roaring of the kettle drums and the sounds of the conch shell with a circular umbrella made of soft woolen cloth, held over him, praised by bards and ministrel, and solicited by eminent men with various kinds of presents in their hands.
 The person will enjoy all comforts in the company of many beautiful damsels”.
 Honestly, the majority of these can be noticed, when some people, belonging to a few Indian communities, pass away and use such drums and conch shells, umbrella, palanquin, or cot, etc. But one should consider how many can become kings, though not of a country, yet at least at home, where normally they can be. How long can they continue to be so? And ina country where brothel is more or less eradicated, how can one be in the company of many damsels. Has he no other work? |
 The astrologer has to consider the limitations and then assess the extent to which the combination can do good to the native. If
he were to interpret correctly, in the majority of the cases, where the other planets are not strong, and very favourably posited, but only this yoga exists, he can predict that the native will get over all the difficulties he had suffered from the time, the Rajayoga planet commences to operate and during its period he will be able to realise his ambition and fulfil his desire. He may enjoy desirable results, and look forward to a satisfactory advancement in his life. The percentage of improvement may be common to those, having the same Rajayoga, but the extent of its enjoyment will vary according to the environments in which he is born. A person, worth a million, may be having a lakh as profit for a year, whereas, another with a similar planetary combination born at the same time, in a middle class family, can have a few thousands or hundreds a year. The swelling in the little finger, due to witlow, will be proportionately less than tne swelling in the thumb, when the witlow affects the thumb.
2. A person may not see the bright days at all in his life time, and pass away, if he does not run the period of the planets which cause such a Rajayoga.
3. Planets in 6, 8 or 12 to the planet producing Rajayoga, will destroy the beneficial results in their sub-periods in the dasa of the Rajayoga planet and in their periods the Rajayoga results will be absolutely absent. (Vipareetha Rajayoga is exempted).
4. Rahu or Ketu, in conjunction with any planet, will give the result of the planet, in their periods, whereas the planet gets much weakened, and the results offered by the planet will, accordingly, be moderate. If one can compare Rahu or Ketu to water, and the planet to milk, then the combination of the node with the planet, may be compared to mixing water with milk, when water gets the name milk, and also fetches a price. Therefore, those planets, which cause Rajayoga by being the lord of a house should not be conjoined with either of the nodes, Rahu or Ketu.
5. Generally, the results of a house and those of the lord of the house, are given by the planet occupying the constellation of
the owner or the tenant. Of all the occupants, the nodes, Rahu and Ketu are the strongest. Hence, if Rahu or Ketu were to be in the house which is owned by the planet, producing Rajayoga, then one can expect such results mostly during the period of the node and in the period of the planets in the constellation of the node and it will not be enjoyed in the period of the planet to one’s satisfaction.
6. Lords of 6 or-8 or 12, conjoined with planets producing
 Rajayoga will rob away the beneficial results of the yoga adhipathis.
 Let us take, for example, one who is born with Aries as his ascendant, and Moon and Mars posited in Kumbha (Aquarius).
 The combination of Moon and Mars termed as Chandramangala yoga, has to produce favourable results to him. It will not be correct to argue that this native will become an engineer and will amass wealth due to this yoga.
 An astrologer should first note the nakshatra in which he is born, what dasa he has at the time of birth, and what dasas follow.
 Next, he has to find out in what age, he will enter into the dasa of the yoga-producing planets. In this case, even if one born with
 Moon in the first degree of Kumbha of Aquarius, he can enjoy the period of Mars to a maximum of 3 ¥% years during his life time: then he can have Moon dasa only after 96 % years of his age. If one would have been born when Moon was at the 30" degree of Kumbha (Aquarius), then he would have had 4 years of Jupiter dasa to start with and only at the age of 69, he will enter into Moon dasa. Therefore this, native would not have become an engineer or earned and saved money as an engineer, because of Moon/Mars combination. A yoga caused by two planets will be enjoyed only when their periods operate in one’s lifetime.
there is a Rajayoga in a person's chart, it does not guarantee that he will never suffer in his life, and that he will ever prosper.
SWA BHUKTI
| am, at present, running Saturn dasa Venus bhukti. During
 Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti, in those-three years and three days, on the whole, | was fortunate. My salary was increased satisfactorily. Status also very much improved.
 A student of astrology threatened me saying: “If a planet does good to a person in its swa-bhukti, i.e., own Bhukti (own sub-period); the remaining eight sub-periods will be harmful.” Is it a fact? What is your opinion and scientific explanation?
 Answer: The statement of that student may be forgotten.
 That is incomplete and incorrect.
 Let me suggest to you the best method of finding out the beneficial sub-periods and also the adverse ones.
1. Have your horoscope correctly cast.
2. Have a dasa-bhukti reference table in which the period of Saturn bhukti running for three years and three days is sub- divided and let the duration of each antara of sub sub-period be also calculated and submitted for your use.
3. From your diary, note down in which antara (sub sub- period) you had fortune and in which antara you had disagreeable results. Similar results alone will repeat when their bhukties operate for longer periods.
 Suppose, you entered Saturn dasa on 10-3-1956. The first sub-period, otherwise called bhukti or apahara, is ruled by Saturn, the dasa lord himself, for 3 years and 3 days from 10-3-56. So, from 10-3-56, you had Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti. Then, for 2 years 8 months and 9 days from 13-3-59 to 22-11-61 Saturn dasa,
 Mercury bhukti operated. For 1 year 1 month and 9 days from 22-11-61 to 1-1-63, Saturn dasa Ketu bhukti had been running.
 Then in Saturn dasa of 19 years
from 1-1-63 to 1-3-66 Venus bhukti,
from 1-3-66 to 13-2-67 Sun bhukti, from 13-2-67. to 10-¥-68 = Moon bhukti, from 13-9-68 to 22-10-69 wars bhukti,
from 22-10-69 to 28-8-72 = Rahu ohukti and finally, from 28-8-72 to 10-3-75 Jupiter bhukti.
 If you sub-divide Saturn bhukti in Saturn dasa, Saturn antara extends from 10-3-56 to 1-9-56.
 Saturn bhukti Mercury antara 1-9-56 to 4-2-57
 Saturn bhukti Ketu antara 4-257 to 8-4-57
 Saturn bhukti Venus antara 8-4-57 to 8-10-57
 Saturn bhukti Sun antara 8-10-57 to 2.1257
 Saturn bhukti Moon antara 2-12-57 to 3-12-58
 Saturn bhukti Mars antara 3-3-58 to 6-5-58 ” Saturn bhukti Rahu antara 65-58 to 18-10-58
 Saturn bhukti Jupiterantara 18-10-58 to 13-3-59
 Note all the events between 10-3-56 and 13-3-59. Suppose you had promotion in January, 1957, it was in the fag end of Mercury sub sub-period. Therefore, during Saturn dasa, Mercury sub- period (or bhukti) which ran between 13-3-59 and 22-11-61, in the last portion, you ought to have been promoted. ff during Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti, Ketu anthra, running between 4-2-57 and 8- 4-57, if any of your close relatives had passed an anxious time, then mostly the same person or a similar relative will again cause anxiety during Saturn dasa, Ketu bhukti in between 22-11-61 and 1-1-63. If during Venus sub sub-period between 8-4-57 and 8-10- 57 you had your wedding, during Venus Bhukti, between 1-1-63 and 1-3-66, you will lead a happy and harmonious life with your wife. Or, if you had fallen in love in the middle of 1957, then in
 Venus bhukti, it will be intimate and marriage will take place. If
during the next sub sup-period of Sun between 8-10-57 and 2-12- 57 you were transferred to a mining department, then during Sun bhukti, you will surely have a decent promotion in such a department. If during Moon's sub-sub period, your younger sister got married, then during Moon bhukti, between 13-2-67 and 13-9- 68, she will lead a pleasant life and she may give birth to a child. If during Mars sub-sub period, between 3-3-58 and 6-5-58 you purchased a plot of land with the idea of constructing a house at a later date, you will surely build one during Mars bhukti, between 13-9-68 and 22-10-69. If Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti, Rahu antara, caused you trouble through eczema; you can look for similar troubles in Saturn dasa, Rahu bhukti, between 22-10-69 and 28-8- 72. Ifyou had a child in Saturn dasa; Saturn bhukti, Jupiter antara, between 18-10-58 and 13-3-59, the child will be fortunate when you run Saturn dasa, Jupiter bhukti between 28-8-72 and 10-3-75.
 Why not? Any event in your life is indicated by the relative position between two planets, or one planet and the cusp of a house. They are the significators and they indicate the results.
 Such occurrences will happen to you whenever those planets jointly rule your time. Similar ones will repeat whenever their periods again and again operate.
 This is the simplest and most accurate method of finding out how the dasa will be, provided your horoscope is correct.
 There are many general rules. They should not be strictly applied. Modifications are many. They are to be included.
 When a particular dasa runs for many years, during that period, by transit, all the planets move in many signs and houses.
 They will indicate separately some results. By progression, Moon will be forming various aspects. Other planets also will form some aspects. They will only confirm the results obtained by following the simplest method suggested by me. There will never be a contradictory indication. They will agree. That is the wonder of vimshodhari system.
Suppose one runs Saturn dasa, Saturn bhukti and Saturn transits in the 8" house, or happens to be ardhaashtama (the 4"), or there is seven and a half years Saturn otherwise called sade-sati one should not conclude that the time is evil and the person will suffer. There are various other aspects to be taken for consideration before passing a judgment.
 For beginners my suggestion is the best, fairly accurate and the simplest.
 An author has said that if a planet were to offer Rajayoga result and has also to cause Maraka, it gives the yoga first and then alone death. By that, the author means that the Rajayoga planet is your strong benefic and hence it allows you to enjoy the fruits of this life to your satisfaction and then alone, it will do harm to your life. Even in law, there are many rules. The spirit of the law is to be properly understood. One has to apply it properly and be practical. Analytical study, correct intuition and good judgement are needed for successful astrologers. Good astrologers will have in their horoscopes strong and favourable
 Mercury conferring all the qualities of a good astrologer. Moon- natives, devoid of beneficial aspects from Mercury, cannot become scientific astrologers. Moon may be compared to a mirror and Mercury to a lens. Moon can simply reproduce those which are committed to memory, just as a mirror shows the image of the object without any alteration or improvement. But a lens is different. So also, unlike Moon, Mercury gives sharp intelligence, thorough study, practical application and correct judgment.
 Read the results given by sages for the sub-periods of Jupiter in Jupiter dasa, Mercury bhukti in Mercury dasa, Venus bhukti in
 Venus dasa, and so on. All the authors give pleasant results.
 Why? They are natural benefics. For you, Saturn, by ownership becomes a benefic.
 Further, note down whether the entire period of two years, one month and eighteen days of Jupiter bhukti, in Jupiter dasa was good. No. only certain sub-sub-periods in Jupiter bhukti would have been favourable while a few might have been
troublesome. Yet, on the whole, it will be good. If you observe, you will understand that the antaras of those planets which were good in Jupiter bhukti, will prove to be very beneficial to a great extent when their bhuktis in Jupiter dasa operate. Similarly, the adverse antaras of the few planets will be undesirable during their bhuktis to a great extent.
 A thorough study of Dasa system, progression and annual horoscope are needed to pass correct judgment.
 As proper and exhaustive, explanation is needed and each
 May cover many pages, separate books on “Dasa Phala
 Nirnayam’, ‘Progression’, ‘Annual Horoscope’ will be published
one after the other if possible by me or by my son guided by me,

# PROGRESSION
 What is Progression?
 The birth chart or the Radix, is the fountain from which springs events in one’s life. What is promised in the radical chart in accordance with one’s karma will unfold itself in the form of good or bad events at some time or other in one's life. Hindu sages have devised several methods to predict the time of events, of which the Udu (Nakshathra) Dasa system propounded by
 Maharishi Parasara is most widely followed. In the west, however they resort to a system known as Progression or Directions to find out when the events indicated by the natural horoscope will crystallise.
 The planets are ever moving in the Zodiac, each in its own orbit and are never stationary though at times they appear to be
standing or still, retrograde as viewed from the Earth. No two planets perform a revolution in the Zodiac in the same period.
 Speed being varied. Thus, when we observe from the Earth a planet sometimes appears to overtake and pass another planet, then stop and later beginning to move forward. After birth, the planets move away, each at a different rate, from the original positions occupied by them at the time of birth. In this process, they take up new places in the signs (Zodiac) and in the houses wherefrom they form certain aspects not only among themselves producing certain events in the mundane sphere but to their own radical positions, the positions of other planets at birth and to other sensitive points in the radical horoscope such as the Fortuna and the cusps of the houses. The movement of the planets after birth measures the time when the events denoted by the birth chartwill culminate. This motion of the planets after birth is called
 Progression’.
 The birth horoscope is all important. The progressed horoscope is only a projection of the birth chart and indicates the changes taking place in the individual within the imposed limits at birth. As Sepharlimits says “Itis the root in the soil which the tree of life grows”.
 Progression is one of the useful methods to time events. In
 India we mainly follow the Vimshodhari Dasa system which offer astoundingly accurate results when Krishnamurti Padhdhati is employed. Progression can help supplement the Udu Dasa system. Transits also serve a very useful purpose in finding out the actual month and date when a certain event will crystallize.
 Separate book on progression is being published shortly.

# (ANNUAL HOROSCOPE)
 Ahoroscope is erécted for the moment when Sun during its course comes back to the original degree, minute and second of the Zodiac where it was at the time of the birth of a native. To find out such a momentit is necessary to have the ephemeris of
that year for which one is to read the results and erect a map fo, that year,
 But those who follow ‘Krishnamurti Padhdhati’ (1) find the difference in the ayanamsa between the year of birth and the year chosen for annual horoscope, (2) add this to the Sayana in of Sun at birth, (3) note the time when Sun comes to this
 Position.
 Using the ephemeris and Raphael's Table of houses one has to calculate, deduct the Ayanamsa given by Krishnamurti and make out a map. [Only when Ephemeris with “Sayana position of planets” is used, the above exercise is needed]
!tmay be asked, at the moment when Sun enters into original degree and minute if the person were to be in a foreign place, then how to erect the horoscope; is it for the latitude and longitude of the birth place or are we to take latitude and longitude of the place where the person is at that time. We have to erect only to the locality where the person is at that moment and not the original birth place.
 While judging the annual horoscope, the astrologer has to give the orb (a range) or 5° for the aspects among Sun and Moon and the aspects among the major planets should be only 2°,
 The conjunction, the opposition, the trine etc., give only one degree. Other aspects are considered to be weak.
 Compare the original horoscope with the position of the planets for that particular year. Beneficial aspects between those in the radical chart and in the annual horoscope promise fortune in that year.
 Position of the luminaries Sun and Moon are considered to be vital. If either of the luminaries were to be either in 1 or 4.0r7 or 10 and if they form good aspects with each other then the coming year is to be declared as a fortunate one. If majority of planets are deposited in the angles it is also an indication that, the year is an important one, If Jupiter or Venus or lord of 2, 10 or 11 were to occupy the 10" house or both exactly in the meridian
and if they also receive beneficial aspects either from Sun or
 Moon that promises prosperity in that year. But if the lagna is occupied by Saturn, Mars, Rahu or Ketu or Uranus and Neptune, then it indicates that in that year there will be disease, difficulty, dispute, debt etc., If evil planets occupy the 6" house and also form evil aspect to lagna it is sure that one will suffer in that year both in health condition and in financial position. Luminaries
 Sun and Moon if they are conjoined with benefics both by nature and by lordship the year is in general a pleasant one. Moon if it were to be afflicted by malefics then it is a bad year. If Moon with
 Mercury or Uranus happen to occupy the lagna bhava then the native will be making frequent travels and he cannot stick on to one place. If they occupy the 12" house along with lord of 2 or 10, he will have a change in the profession. Saturn has a peculiarity. Whenever it occupies the lagna bhava the chronic disease from which one had been suffering will in that year frequently flare up and cause misfortune. If lord of lagna occupies the 7" house in the annual map there is a chance for marriage. If one is already married, if the wife had gone on camp or tour, she will come and rejoin. The lord of the 2” house in the annual map, if it were to be either in lagna or the 10" or the 11" house, it shows, peace, pleasure and prosperity.
 If lord of 5 has such similar disposition and if it receives good aspects from the lords of 2, 6 and 11 one can come by fortune, unexpected advantages will accrue. If the lord of 8 were to occupy either the lagna or the 6" house there is always difficulty and danger. Iflord of lagna similarly occupies 6 or 8 and ifitis afflicted itis also dangerous. Ifthe lagna in the annual horoscope happens to be the 7" house in the radical horoscope then that year will prove to be adverse. If Moon or lord of 12" were to occupy the 9" house it indicates long journey, overseas and life in a foreign place; if evil planet with Mercury owning the 12" house is afflicted and occupies the 7" house one will lose by transaction or by theft or cheating.
 To find out the time of event according to annual horoscope it is said the every result in one's life is indicated by at least a
house and a planet. Therefore whenever the luminaries either conjoin or square or oppose a planet, one will face with difficulties.
 But if Sun, Moon and the significator form beneficial aspect to the house signifying the matter in query or if they form good aspects with the lords of those houses then his desire will be fulfilled. So one has to take the transit of the planets from the moment of the erection of the horoscope till it again comes to the same degree next year. One has to judge taking into consideration the various aspects formed by the transiting planets to the position of the planets erected in the annual horoscope and this is what the Westerners generally do.
 In Hindu system, Kalidas has given one in the book Uthra
 Kalamirtham. There is another system ‘Tajik’. Let me give what
 Kalidas says. Erect the horoscope as mentioned above. Give importance to the position of Moon at that moment. Calculate the portion that is to be covered by Moon. Work out the following periods as the dasa period of the planets for that year.
 Sun is allotted 110 days, Moon 60 days, Mars 32, Mercury 40, Jupiter 45, Venus 56, Saturn 4, Rahu 5 and Lagna 10 days.
 These periods just like Udu Dasa follow in a cyclic order. To find out which dasa commences first and how many days it has to run, note the position of the Moon in the star. The dates allotted to each planet is to be multiplied by the portion that is left over that is to be covered by Moon divided by the whole star which is equal to 13° 20’. This gives the number of days on a particular dasa which is to run from the time of the erection of the horoscope.
 The star in which Moon was, does not indicate the first dasa lord. To find out which dasa operates, follow a separate system.
 In which star Moon was at the time of the Solar year day. Count it from the natal star. So Natal star is taken as I, then 2, 3 and so on. Find out in which number of the star Moon is posited. Divide by 9. Note the remainder. Sun dasa starts first. If the remainder is 2, Moon dasa of 60 days; If 3 is the remainder then 32 days of
 Mars. If 9 is the remainder, or 0 is the remainder take lagna and
10 days for lagna dasa. That portion which is to be covered multiplied by the total number of days allotted to the planet, divided by 13° 20’ will be the number of days o/ the dasa left over. It is to operate first from the moment of the erection of the chart. Suppose the remainder is 4, then Mercury Dasa will be the 1", and suppose 1/4" of the asterism is left over then of the 40 days 1/4" is 10 days. Therefore 10 days of Mercury Dasa is to run from the time of the birth. After Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and
 Saturn follow, pass on, and then Sun, Moon, Mars. Now only 335 days will be over. So the other 30 days will be the 30 days of
 Mercury Dasa which was first rejected. Because that portion was already traveled by Moon. Thus one is to find out the dasa period.
 Kalidas says that one has to include the transit result of the planet during that year in relation to the position of Moon in one’s horoscope and then the results of the various dasas in that year.
 If Sun is beneficial, accumulation of wealth, purchase of jewels and new house. Weak Sun threatens committing of sin, loss by enemies, litigation, loss of wealth and troubles. Beneficial
 Moon gives royal favour, improvement in bank position, prestige and honour. Weak Moon shows that there will be inimical activities and irritation, disease, change of residence and misunderstanding with all. Favourable Mars indicates favour from the Government, success in attempts, happiness, purchase of land etc., (commencement of an industry may be included). Weak
 Mars shows dispute, litigation, quarrel even with own children, partition, no harmony among the couple, extra expenses etc.
 Mercury well posited shows an active, alert, energetic action to enjoy one's life and have larger profits. Weak Mercury brings misunderstanding with one’s cousin or uncle and also gives the mind to take all bad ways and be unfriendly with good natured people. Strong Jupiter indicates purchase of vehicle, house, property and also come out successful in education and litigation.
 Weak Jupiter indicates change of residence and expenses outweighing income, take bad ways and associate with dirty fellows. Strong Venus shows that the native will enjoy the fruits
of life in the world with much wealth and fame. Venus also indicates that there is every probability of marriage in that year during its dasa period. Weak Venus threatens loss of health, enmity, disharmony, dispute, disease, etc. strong Saturn indicates that one can acquire estate, building, house and may hold a
 Position of trust and the chronic disease which he had been suffering from will flare up. Strong Rahu shows that the native may marry in its dasa period and he will have promotion and prosperity. Ifit is bad, it may include the demise of the parents.
 When the lagna dasa is on generally the result will be good. But it depends upon the planets which occupy the lagna. While predicting include the various aspects to the cusp of the ascendant and also the planets in the ascendant. so far, both
 Western and Hindu system of erecting the annual horoscope and reading out the result is given.
 But according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati erection of the horoscope remains the same. One has to follow the following principles. Note down.
(i) What can Sun contribute to you? Where is your lagna?
 To which Bhava Sun is the lord? In which house is it posited and in which constellation and sub? So note down what Sun can contribute for you. Similarly note down what Moon, Mars, Mercury and so on, indicate by their nature, lordship, occupation of a bhava, constellation, sub etc.
(ii) What are the constellations governed by these planets?
 That which is indicated by Sun will be given by the planets situated in or transiting in the constellation belonging to Sun i.e., Karthika,
 Uttaram, Uttradam; Moon representing certain matters will be given by the planets to one, according to annual horoscope posited in or transiting Rohini or Hastham or Sravana. Each planet rules three stars according to Udu dasa system. Whatever a planet signifies the same is indicated by the stars governed by them. Those results will be enjoyed while a planet transits there and the source is shown by the transiting planet. So, whenever a planet transits in a constellation the planet is the source of the
result; constellation indicates the nature of the result; the time event is fixed precisely by considering the sub i.e., note the sub.
 When it moves in a particular sub which is ruled by a benefic, he will enjoy that nature of the result; if the same planet moves in the same star and transits in a sub which is unfavourable and disagreeable, then even though the nature of the result will be the same yet one will be disappointed or the result will be unfavourable and he will be displeased. Therefore the planet is the source; the constellation lord indicates the nature of the result and the sub lord shows how he enjoys, what the source is and whether such a result contributes for pleasure or displeasure; whether itis successful or failure. For example, if Venus, indicates one’s marriage and if Venus star Barani is transited by lord of 2 or 7 or lord of 11 in that year, then whenever the significator moves in favorable sub, negotiations regarding marriage will come nearer and whenever it transits unfavourable sub, result at that time will be delayed or one may reject the offer and a fresh attempt will be made when it moves into another beneficial sub.
 Though the matter relates to marriage as is indicated by the lord of the constellation, the various events about marriage is clearly shown by the sub, transited by the significator. Annual horoscope is made use of by the majority of the people in North India. But this annual horoscope is not worked out to that extent in South
 India especially in Tamilnad and Kerala. So many people were under wrong impression that Solar map was introduced by
 Westerners. It is not correct. In olden days, even Kalidas in
 Uthra Kalamritham has mentioned ‘Tajik’ system is an elaborate one.
 Whether the results are beneficial or adverse, in full they agree with Udu Dasa system, progression etc. One does not contradict the other. It is mysterious.

# ASHTAKA VARGA
 In Hora Makaranda it is said that planets moving in the Zodiac produce such results which they indicate as they pass from one
sign to the other and in the 12 signs. By Janma Rasi, it is meant that Moon was in a particular sign for that person. They take the
 Lagna and only the seven planets from Sun to Saturn which rule the seven days of the week. Therefore they judge from the 8 positions. So the astrologer is to prepare different maps called
 Sun Ashtaka Varga; Moon Ashtaka Varga; Mars Ashtaka Varga and so on up to Saturn Ashtaka Varga.
 While calculating, one need not consider whether the planet is in the beginning or in the middle or in the end of the sign. calculations are made from sign to sign. the houses are not taken (This is defect number-1). Let me take for any one planet and explain. When one prepares Sun Ashtaka Varga; one makes a map of the Zodiac with twelve signs in it. Sun contributes beneficial results as are indicated by it when it passes in the signs 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 counted from the sign it occupied in the birth chart. Similarly Moon contributes for beneficial results in Sun Ashtaka Varga when Sun passes through the signs 3, 6, 10 and 11 counted from the sign occupied by Moon. Mars contributes for favourable results in Sun Ashtaka Varga when
 Sun passes through the signs 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 counted . from the sign occupied by Mars in the birth chart; Similarly for
 Mercury, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 and 12 from the position of Mercury; for Jupiter, count from Jupiter's sign, the signs 5, 6, 9 and 11; for
 Venus 6, 7 and 12; for Saturn 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11; The seven planets are over. But Ashtaka Varga means eight vargas.
 So the eighth varga belongs to Lagna. Lagna contributes in Sun
 Ashtaka Varga, the signs counted from Lagna - 3, 4, 6,, 10, 11 and 12. Mark it as ‘L’ Satyacharya says —
‘Janma kalae, Graha yatra Sthitha
 Thath Sthana tho’ nganyaeth
 Raeka Bindhooscha Thathrarkshae
 Chara ch chaeth Palam Graha”.
 Bhadarayana, Devakirti, Yavaneswara, Gunakara have advocated this method. Varahamihira and Vaidyanatha Dikshithar have mentioned in the books Brihat Jataka and Jataka parijata.
 Modern Astrological Research Institute, Madras has found —
(1) Ashtaka Varga is incomplete: hence incorrect. (2) It needs more research to make it correct.
 Therefore, full details are not furnished. But why | declare that the literature available at present is insufficient to get correct results is given below :-
(a) Longevity or Ayus is calculated from Ashtaka Varga. Let one calculate for three people born on the same day, in the same hospital at an interval of 40 minutes, all the three having the same
 Lagna
 Then the Lagna sign is the same. The positions of planets also remain same. Hence by calculation, all the three will get the same Ashtaka Varga figure. Ekadipatya reduction, Rasi
 Gunakara, remain the same. Therefore if we calculate longevity, all the three persons should have the same figure, same span of life. Of the twins born in the same sign as lagna, one lives and one dies. Longevity is not the same. They do not die on the same day after having lived for some years. When such is the case, days of toil to erect so many Varga tables, reduction, calculation etc., will be found to be useless. For transit results also it is not applicable to twins.
 My first principle is that one can follow any system which is applicable to twins or persons born in the same sign as Lagna on the same day in the same locality.
 As regards prosperity, it is said that persons born in Mesha-
 Aries Lagna having Sun in Aries - Mesha in exaltation and Jupiter in 4 in Cancer-Karkata in exaltation will become a King and will have 100,000 horses in his command. Jupiter remains for 1 year in Cancer, on an average. In that year, Sun will be in Aries for a month. In that month on an average 1/12" of the births may be in Aries. Therefore one in 1728 births will be having such a disposition. How the above rule can be quoted? To whom and
when? Probably, one living or dead centuries ago, having had such a position, will be taken and this rule applied and appreciated. | pose this. There are horoscopes of persons living and suffering born in 1955, 1943, 1932, 1920, 1907 and so on, between 13! April and 13" May ai the time of sunrise in Aries
 Lagna. Just like this rule is not universally applicable to all,
 Ashtaka Varga is.
(b) Take the horoscopes of husband and wife born on different dates. Calculate the number of the children. Harmony among the couple will be affected as the figures never tally.
 Hence Ashtaka Varga is not explained. Yet to convince the readers, in my magazine Astrology and Athrishta, we shall deal three different cases and convince the readers. If by God's Grace any improvement to make it perfect, dawns in our mind, we will
publish.

# ( HORARY ASTROLOGY )
 This is the sublime art of predicting events from the position of the heavenly bodies, the signs and houses occupied by them at the moment of query. Any question may be seriously or anxiously propounded. Correct solution can be had by following this system. One is to know all about the signs, houses, aspects, planets etc. After thoroughly understanding them and clearly following the principles of judgment mentioned in this book, one is to erect a map at the time, the astrologer has the urge to answer, take the houses which signify the matter (the juestion) and judge.
 The constellation and the sub play the important role and they guide to come out correctly.
 As this branch of the Science takes a minimum of 400 pages with important questions, illustrations and examples, are published in a separate book titled as “Horary Astrology” —
 Advanced stellar system — (K.P)” The main problems with examples are treated.

# RAINS AND ELECTRIC SUPPLY )
 Rains to relieve the pains of the public and the Government to have its normal gains is the desire of one of the Highe st officials in Madras.
 Agricultural, food, water supply and the Electricity
 Departments, depending on the impounded reservoirs and lakes on the hills want timely rains.
 Meteorological department is mostly similar to a newspaper giving the particulars after the event, maximum and minimum temperature, rainfall etc. If at all, only after a depression in the bay, they can expect the storm. They can say how much it has rained but they cannot foresee how much it would rain.
 Astrology, after developing it, by carrying out a little research can clearly state, when and where, how much rain the people can have, years, decades and centuries in advance. Research is to be done by collecting the rainfall charts, noting down the position of planets and applying the rules given in Brihat Samhita, to definitely state the rainfall.
 If it is found that there will be breaches, Engineers may be forewarned. Prevention is better than cure. A small sum spent on reinforcing the bund of the lake and the bank of the river will save the people from varieties of difficulties; no loss of life of the
 Villagers in the inundated areas; no loss of life of animals etc.; no loss of vegetables and other crops; no loss of building; no dislocation etc. It prevents loss and saves money.
 The water supply department can regulate the supply.
 The food department can avoid famine.
 The electricity department can also make wide publicity much in advance and regulate the supply.
 If mills are closed, so much of labour suffer without a job.
 The newspaper cuts the news: Publishers delay in bringing out the books - (I am one of the sufferers) - Those who want to buy
electric motor for pump-sets may go in for Diesel oil engines and irrigate their field from wells in that year. Next year they can switch on to electric motor. What is the use of appointing one when one knows astrologically that he will fall ill from typhoid and for a month he will be absent. Instead appoint some one first and have your own man after he recovers from the disease.
 Thus astrology can be made very useful to the Government and to the public. Indeed, some more research is needed.
 To-day at 11.50 A.M., one of the important members, holding avery high position desirous of serving the public, most anxiously phoned and wanted to know how this year will be. He asked “Please say when there will be rain in the Nilgiris and in Mercara.
 Will it be sufficient? Will it be better than last year or worse?” “Please give a number within 249, Sir.” “206 please” “I shall give a ring at 1 PM. after my calculation”. “Good or bad, please state as the planets portray”. “Certainly”. “Alright”.
 The horoscope is as follows :-
 For number 206, the Lagna will be 26°.6’.40” in Capricorn.
 Moon represents the nature of query. Itis in its own constellation,
 It is a watery planet. So the question may be about water.
 Varahamihira, Garga, Parasara, Kasyappa, Maya, Brihaspati have discussed about the Moon’s conjunction with Rohini to predict the good and bad effects of rain. Therefore Rohini indicates ‘Rains’.
 To-day, it is Monday ruled by Moon (28-2-66). The star is ruled by Moon-Rohini. The sign is governed by Venus. Hence
 Venus and Moon rule the moment of query. Rohini is the starin which Lord Krishna was born and in His Time there was plenty of milk and food. Rohini itself suggests “Plenty”.
 According to progression Moon conjoined Rahu seven months ago: therefore from August and upto this time the rains were scanty.
 By progression Moon conjoins Jupiter in a year and next year 1967 March there will be unusual, unprecedent, uncommon heavy rains.
“It is a good news. But what will happen in between?”
 Benefit is denoted by 11 house. 11" house to the 7" is the 5" house. It is occupied by Jupiter. Hence planets in the constellation of Jupiter and Jupiter itself indicate that in their conjoined periods and sub periods, and whenever planets transit their constellations, there will be good rains at the time they are in the sub of the significators.
 It is found that unusually there will be clouds and occasional showers between 22-3-66 and 3-4-66. On 6-4-6, there will be good rains.
Between 24-4-66 and 19-5-66, there is no rains. Between 19-5-66 and 1-6-66, it starts raining. Itincreases, On 18-7-66 the lakes overflow.
 Normal supply of electricity will be resumed on 10-7-66 and there will be no cut in the near future.
 Further Moon conjunction, with Jupiter indicates that there will be expansion, improvement and addition to the present power houses. Mars, as lord of 11 aspecting Moon indicates (being a fiery planet) that you will erect Thermal station also. Mars, conjunction Saturn and Sun portray that from mine areas (Neyvell) you will get electricity to augment the supply.
(All these predictions came true).

# Rectification of Birth Time
 When one is doubtful about his exact time of birth, but says that it may be around 15 minutes this way or that, is there any method by which one can find out the exact moment of birth?
| shall give some of the methods which are available. How far you can rely on them, is left entirely to you, to the readers and to the research scholars.
(1) Convert the approximate time of birth given in I.S.T., to
 Vighatis after Sunrise (Sunrise will be given in L.M.T. convert to
 L.S.T.). Multiply by 4 and divide by 9. The remainder is the number of the star counted from Aswini, Makham or Moolam. Suppose
 Sun rises at 6 A.M. Birth is at 8 A.M. That is the birth took place 2 hours after Sunrise.
1 Day = 60 Ghatis = 3600 Vighatis 1Hour = 2% Ghatis = 150 = Vighatis iGhati = 24 Min. = 60 Vighatis 1 Minute = 2% Vighatis 4 Vighati = 24 Seconds.
If the birth is 2 hours after Sunrise then it means it is 5 Ghatis = 300 Vighatis.
 Multiply by 4 and divide by 9
 Then 300x4 = 1200 = 133 */, 9 9
 Remainder is 3. That is, it means that Moon at the time of birth should be in the Nakshathra which is the 3° from Aswini or
 Makham or Moolam i.e., it may be Karthikai or Uthrapalguni or
 Uthrashada.
 But, suppose the star is Chithra, then one is to find out that
 Vighati, next to the number of Vighatis given by consultant.
 He mentioned 8 a.m. = 300 Vighatis after sunrise. So you should add or subtract 1 Vighati or 2 or 3 and so on till you get the remainder 5 which shows the three stars Mrigasirisha, Chithra and Dhanishta.
 Therefore if one is born at 305 Vighatis or 296 Vighatis, the remainder after multiplying by 4 and dividing by 9 will be only 5.
 But the person says thatit may err to a maximum of fifteen minutes either way. Then find how many Vighatis will yield the same result.
 The following Vighatis wil! give the remainder 5. 278; 287; 296; 305; 314; 323; 332; 341 and so on. 278 Vighati is after 7.45 A.M. and 341 Vighati is before 8.15 A.M.
 Which will you give? (2) Another method mentioned is as under --
 Note where Mandi was at the time of birth. The Lagna sign will be either 5 or 7 or 9 or 1 when counted from the sign occupied by Mandi- (Then alternatives are given — either to Moon or Lagna, either in Rasi or Navamsa).
If Mandi and Lagna are to be in 1, 5, 7 or 9 the consultant asks, why then the same author gives the results of Mandi occupying any house from Lagna. l.e., the first, second, third, fourth etc., up to 12.
 How to reconcile?
 If the sign is to be either 5 or 9 (for example) it can be useful to find the Lagna, correct to 30.
 If Navamsa is taken, the position of Lagna is correct to 3 20’.
 As the Navamsa Lagna changes roughly once in 13 or 14 minutes, how far will this calculation give a precise answer?
(3) In Uthra Kalamrita, it is said that the interval between
 Sunrise and the time of birth is to be converted into Vighatis.
 Divide by 225,
 Then males are born if the remainder is between 0 and 15; or 45 and 90; or between 150 and 225. Females are born if the remainder is between 15 and 45 or between 90 and 150.
“According to this method, we have to multiply 53 % Ghatis by 60 (he has taken the time of birth as 53 % Ghatis) to convert them to Vighatis, thus 53 % x 60 or 215 x 15. This has to be divided by 225. Thus, 215 x 15 divided by 225 gives a quotient of 14 and remainder of 75. This falls with in second Group (45 to 90) which shows that the sex is ‘Male’.
 In the first example taken, when a first principle is applied, the birth may be between 278 and 341 Vighatis. So the remainder may be 53 or 62 or 71 or 80, or 89 or 98 or 106 or 115. So if the
 Consultant is male (presuming that the horoscope belongs to the consultant) then 55; 62 or 71; 80 will be one of the timings. If the consultant is a lady, then the number of Vighatis will be 98 or 106 or 115 when both the rules 1 and 3 will be satisfied.
(4) Pre-natal-Epoch.
 Much is said about this. Very briefly let me state how it is not useful to one and all. Suppose two persons are born with the
Ascendant and Moon as shown below, say they are born at an interval of 30 minutes on the same day.
 According to the rules, find where Lagna and Moon at the time of Epoch to A and B are. Moon is passing 10° and 17 in
 Aquarius, on the same day, which is the position of Moon on the day of Epoch.
 What is the rule, find out the exact time on the day of epoch when Lagna for A will be Gemini 6 and for B Lagna will be Gemini 615".
It can be only one minute.
 If the Lagna of Epocti were to be, say 2 PM. to A, then for ‘B’ it will be only 2-01 PM.
 Now we have to calculate where Moon would be, on the day of epoch, for A at 2 PM. and for B at 2.01 PM.
 It is more or less the same position; probably it moves by. 0.5 minute,
 So, in the Epoch Chart it is worked out and found that when
 Gemini 6 rises, on the day of Epoch, Moon was actually in 13 15'40”.
 Whereas for B, when the ascendant is in 6 15’ Moon was in 13 16'20”.
 Now, we have to take that, for ‘A’ in his horoscope, the Lagna should be 13 15’40” and for the chart B, Lagna is 13 16’20”.
 Think, awhile. If one’s Lagna on a particular day is 13 15’40” and the other’s Lagna on the same day is 13 16’20” what should be the interval between one's birth and the other. It can only be two minutes. But what is the actual interval, 30 mts. Then how far we can boldly declare this to be a method for rectification is to be judged by the readers.
 Let us take two births actuals.
 In a hospital on 8-11-1945 there were two births. One child was born at 5.30 RM. the same nurse went to the next room and attended upon another lady and another child was born at 6 PM. on 8-11-1945. Both want to find out the correct time of birth by applying Prenatal Epoch.
 The horoscope of the child born at 5.30 PM. on 8-11-1945 at 25 19’ N and 82 ::0’ E and that of the other at 6 PM. in the same hospital are as under:
 Acouple may have pleasant time every night. Yet, one cannot say which night function would have been fruitful. The day itself is not definite. Further, the male spermatozoa can enter into female ova at any time after copulation within a period of 38 hours.
nme
 Therefore at which moment, the epoch commences nobody can
 Say, even though one knows the period of few minutes of
 Pleasure.
 Generally, from the time of epoch, the growth commences and the intra-uterine life will be around nine months, i.e. nine sclar months or ten lunar months.
1. There may be an increase or decrease in this period. It is found that it depends upon four factors i.e, (a) whether Moon was waxing ~ Sukla Paksha, increasing in light or the longitude between Sun and Moon is increasing from the New Moon; or (b)
 Moon was waning - Krishna Paksha, decreasing in light or the longitude between Sun and Moon decreasing from the time of
 Full Moon, (c) whether Moon is found above the horizon, anywhere in the houses 12, 11, 10, 9, 8 or 7; (d) or Moon is found below the horizon, anywhere in the houses 6, 5, 4, 3, 20r 1.
 Then, the period of intra-uterine life in above nine solar months if (a) Waxing Moon, is below horizon (houses 1 to 6) or (b) Waning Moon is above horizon (houses 7 to 12) and itis less than nine solar months if (a) the Waxing Moon is above horizon (houses 7 to 12) or (b) the Waning Moon is below horizon (houses 1 to 6).
 II. To find out which sign would have been occupied by
 Moon on the day of Epoch and which Part of the Zodiac will be rising at the time of Epoch one is to follow the following rules.
 Suppose, at the time of birth, it was Sukla Paksha, i.e., Waxing
 Moon, then the Ascendant at the time of Epoch will be the sign and the position of Moon at the time of birth. The day of Epoch is that day on which (around 9 months prior to birth) Moon transited in that sign and around the degree of the Lagna at the time of birth.
 In the above examples, Moon gets separated from Sun. New
 Moon was over. Itis increasing in light. Itis called Waxing Moon.
 As the Lagna in the first example is 21°6'. Taurus, 7% Cusp will be
21° 6’ Scorpio. Therefore Aries, Pisces, Aquarius, Capricorn,
 Sagittarius and the portion between 30 Scorpio and 21 6' Scorpio are above the horizon.
 Hence the position of Lagna at the moment of Epoch should be 24° 11’ Sagittarius (which was the position of Waxing Moon at the time of birth). Further the day of Epoch will be 18" February 1945 (9 months before the birth time) when Moon was transiting around 21 6’ Taurus.
 In the second example, the position of Lagna at the time of
 Epoch will be 24° 26’ in Sagittarius (as it was Waxing Moon at the time of birth) and the day of Epoch will be 19-2-1945 when Moon transists 29° 29’ Taurus.
 III. Find the exact time on the day of Epoch when that part of the Zodiac will rise in the East on the day of Epoch which is the position of Moon at the time of birth.
 For this, one is to take the table of houses for the Latitude at which the mother stayed during those pleasant days. Here in these examples, the mother was during the pleasant days and the painful day, all along, in the same place. So from the table of
 Houses for Latitude 25° 19’ note the sidereal time given for the
 Ascendant in Sagittarius 24° 11’ i.e. look down the column ‘Ascendant’. When you come to the 7" line on the right side page, you will find Asc. 24° 15’ Sagittarius when thie sidereal time would be 12 hours 22 mts. And 2 secs. If you calculate, you will find that 24 11’ Sagittarius would have risen when the sidereal time was 12 hours 21 minutes 44 seconds. Suppose a child is born on 18-2-1945 and you find the sidereal time at the time of birth of a child is 12 hours 21 min. 44 seconds, then what is the actual time of birth.
 If you calculate deducting rectification for the interval at 10 secs. Per hour, you will get the figure 14 hours 27 mts. as the interval between previous noon and the time of birth i.e., 2.27 am on 19-2-1945.
 Find out the position of Moon at 2-27 a.m. on 19-2-1945 Moon at 2-27 A.M. on 19-2-1945 will be 23° 30’ in Taurus.
 Similarly if one works for the time on 19-2-1945 when Asc. 24° 26’ Sagittarius rises. It will be found that the sidereal time would be 12 hours 22 mts. 50 secs. And the time of birth will be 14 hours 30 mts. 30 secs. added to previous noon i.e., 2-28-5
 A.M. on 19-2-1945.
 Calculate the position of Moon for this time 2 hours 28 mts. 5 secs. A.M. 19-2-1945. It is 23° 36’ 1” in Taurus. Therefore the
 Lagna at the time of birth for one born at 5-30 PM. is arrived at as 23° 30’ Taurus and for the other born at 6 PM. it is found to be 23° 36’ 1”, as the position of Moon at the time of Epoch is the position of Lagna at the time of birth, it Moon at birth was waxing.
 Will this method of rectification be useful?
 According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati and the simplest method of multiplying the number of Vigatis from sunrise to the time of birth by 4, dividing the product by 9 and counting the star from Aswini trine will give the exact Vigati.
 This method gives confidence, convinces one and proves to be correct.
 In Brihat Jataka, written by Varaha Mihira in Chapter 26, there are 17 stanzas to cast the horoscope of a person whose time of
epoch (impregnation) and also the time of birth is not known
 He gives the method to erect a horoscope from the time of query.
 From this, one can understand that the time of birth and the urge to work out and erect the horoscope of a native from the moment of query has a direct bearing. They are inter-linked.
 There can be no second opinion.
 Therefore one is to follow the following method: (1) Note the lord of the day when the query is answered;
(2) Note the star at that time i.e. the lord of the constellation in which Moon transits.
(3) Find the lord of the sign in wnich Moon is. (4) Who is the lord of the Lagna.
 These planets will be the same who govern the sign in which the Lagna is, the constellation in it, the sub and the sub sub.
(a) A person wanted to know whether his Lagna is Taurus last degree or Gemini first degree, so that he may know whether
 Venus or Mercury is the lord of the Lagna. This person visited at 9-5 A.M. on 27-4-1966. The Legna at the time of query was Gemini owned by Mercury. The day is Wednesday governed by Mercury.
 Moon is in Punarvasu star ruled by Jupiter. It is in its own sign and is aspected by Mars. Hence Mercury, Jupiter, Moon and
 Mars are the ruling planets at the time of query.
 The doubt is whether it is Venus sign, Mars star, Saturn sub i.e. between 27 -53’-20” and 30 Taurus or between 0 and 1 -53'- 20” which is jointly ruled by Mercury lord of the sign. Mars is the lord of the constellation and Mercury lord of the sub.
 The ruling planets at the time of query having nothing to do with Venus and Saturn. But Mercury and Mars agree. Then what about Jupiter and Moon. As Jupiter is in Lagna at the time of query, take as Jupiter sub sub.
Caiculate the time when sub sub of Jupiter will rise on the day of the birth of the native. That is the time of his birth. His
 Lagna is Gemini and its lord is Mercury. Venus is not the lord.
 No other rule can categorically eliminate one and correctly give the true Lagna. Is not this method convincing? 32 of my students who are very intelligent tried to put this method to test. They tested on their horoscopes and their children which they know.
 They are convinced and this is published for the readers to use this method and be benefited.
(3) Another person on 3-5-66 asked whether he is born in
 Scorpio or Sagittarius. The day is Tuesday ruled by Mars, Moon in Virgo owned by Mercury, the constellation is Chitra governed by Mars; Moon is aspected by Saturn, Mercury and Venus.
 The doubt is whether the lord of the sign is Jupiter or Mars.
 Actually the birth will be at Mars sign, Scorpio, Mercury star
 Jyeshta Saturn sub between 27 -53’-20” and 30 Scorpio. It cannot be Sagittarius as the time of query has nothing to do with Jupiter.
 Next after finding out the sub, one is to calculate when that sign, constellation and sub will rise in the East on the day of birth and when it will be over.
 In the first case, Gemini sign rose in the East 5 Ghatis 16
 Vigatis after sunrise i.e. 316 Vigatis after sunrise. Multiply 316 by 4 and divide by 9. 4 is the remainder. Count from Aswini trine.
 His star in which Mcon transited at the time of birth should be, according to this calculation Rohini or Hastham or Sravanam.
 But his star is Jyeshta. The remainder should be 9. Then you add or deduct one, one Vigati from the time of birth. The nearest one shows the actual Vigati of birth. If you add one to 316, multiply by 4 and divide by 9, balance is 8; if you add one more, balance is 3. Ifyou add one more and do the process remainder is 7 and so deduct one from 316. You get315. Multiply by 4. The product is 1260. Divide by 9. It goes 140 times which may be taken as 139 times and the remainder is 9 when you count from Aswini trine, it agrees. Therefore, declare that his time of birth was 315
 Vigatis after sunrise on that day to that locality.
The above method alone can clearly fix the position of Lagna, give the correct time of birth and convince the consultant.
(An Astrologer has to pray: gain the Divine Grace: develop intuition: but treat this science scientifically: God never fails to guide. He gives the tip to correctly eliminate the incorrect one and select the right one accurately).
 Another example to decide time of birth:
Note down the time of analysis, It is 7-35 A.M. on 7-4-66.
 Find out the ruling planets. Since the chart is taken only to find out whether it is correct or not, the ruling planets at the time of analysis should have ruled the birth time also. In other words, the analysis is to find out the birth time only. Hence when the
birth occurred, the planets ruling should also rule the moment of , analysing the horoscope also; otherwise the horoscore is wrong.
 By ruling planets, it is meant as follows: (1) The lord of the day. (2) Lord of the star in which Moon transits. (3) Lord of the sign (Rasi) in which Moon transits.
(4) Lord of the lagna sign or the sign in which the
 Ascendant transits.
(5) The lord of the star rising in the east i.e. the star, in which the Ascendant transits.
 On 7-4-66 at 7.35 a.m., the ruling planets are as below:-
1.Jupiter Lord of the day Thursday 2.Rahu $ Lord of the star Swathi. 3.Venus : Lord of Libra-Thulam (Rasi) in which Moon was transiting. 4.Mars g Lord of the lagna Aries-Mesha. 5.Venus 7 Lord of the star Bharani rising in
the east at 7.35 a.m.
 Rahu, unaspected by any planet, represents lord of the sign
 Taurus — Rishaba in which it is posited. Lord of Taurus - Rishaba is Venus. Rahu represents Sun, since it is in the constellation
 Karthik ruled by Sun on 7-4-66.
 Hence, Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus should have ruled native's time of birth. The native was born on Sunday ruled by
 Sun. At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 (birth day) exact time, the lagna was Libra-Thulam. Star rising was Chitrai. The sign Libra-Thulam is ruled by Venus. The constellation rising is ruled by Mars. Moon was transiting in Visakam star ruled by Jupiter at the time of birth.
 Hence at 4-26 A.M. exact time on 9-11-1942 the ruling Planets were Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus. \
If the birth were to be at 3-26.a.m. (exact time) lagna would have been in Virgo-Kanni ruled by Mercury, the star rising in the east would have been Hastham ruled by Moon. Since Mercury - and Moon do not rule the moment of analysis, the native could not have been born at 3-26 a.m. exact time.
 Let us find out whether 5-26 a.m. exact time corresponding to clock time of 6-26 A.M. might have been the birth time. At 5- 26 A.M. (exact) the star rising was Swathi ruled by Rahu in the sign Libra-Thulam ruled by Venus. Since Rahu and Venus rule the present moment this could have been the birth time.
 Now how to select? Was it 4-26 a.m. or 5-26 a.m. (both) time exact time, when the birth took place?
(1) Find out the lord of the lagna at the moment of analysis.
 This should have been the sub sub lord rising in the east at the time of birth.
(2) At 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 find out lord of star rising, lord of the sub rising and lord of the sub sub rising. Lord of the sub sub should be Mars (lord of lagna at the moment of analysis) if 4-26 a.m. exact time were to be correct. At 5-26 a.m. on 9-11- 1942 (exact time) sub sub lord of the star rising in east was not
 Mars. Hence the native should have been born at 4-26 a.m. on 9-11-1942 corresponding to the clock time 5-26 A.M. since the clock showed one hour in advance of actual of exact time.

# HORA AND ITS USE
 The ecliptic is the apparent pathway of the Sun in the
 Heavens. The planets and the other luminary Moon, follow their own individual tracks which lie along the ecliptic on north and south of it. This width on either side is about 712° and hence the pathway of the planets is around 15° in width, having the ecliptic in its centre. This is called the Zodiac.
 If one observes, it will appear that the whole Zodiac goes round the earth once a day, i.e., once in 24 hours and the same
portion of the Zodiac rises in the east in 23 hours 56 minutes and few seconds.
 As the Zodiac is divided into 12 equal parts called Solar mansion (sign or rasi) (Mesha-Aries to Meena ~ Pisces), each division will be appearing in the east, roughly for a duration of 2 hrs. In other words, the previous sign will appear to rise up in the heavens and the next sign will commence to rise nearly two hours after the previous sign began to rise. Hence the 12 signs rise in the east, roughly at an interval of 2 hours.
 The Hindu astrologers have subdivided each sign into two halves and called such a division as a Hora. Hence roughly one hour is needed for each Hora to rise in the east or pass through the Meridian. But the Hindu astrologers, in olden days did not calculate the time in hours and minites. They used to measure in Ghatis and Vigatis or Naligai and Vinadi. Hence a day is of 60
 Ghatis. Hence each sign is approximately 5 Ghatis and half a sign or a Hora will be about 2 ¥% Ghatis.
 Pharos in Chaldean star lord says: In remote and ancient
 Chaldean the knowledge of the stars and the framing of the Zodiac were the results of the Divinely Inspired Gifts to the wise men.
 The books of Genesis, the Mosaic Era, the Babylonic and Hindu
 Empires were non-existent when the Chaldean sages laid down the axiom that ‘Obstral spheres exert continual influence on terrestrial life. Chaldeans followed the Hora and found out the influence of the planets over the affairs of the people. Also it was said that certain hours are advantageous for certain matters and certain hours are unfortunate for some affairs. This method of prediction is called ‘Hora’.
 The ‘Hindus’ also were aware that certain matters thrive in some hours (i.e. 2 % Ghatis periods) and some fail in certain hours (2 ¥% Ghatis periods).
 Both the Hindus and the Chaldeans do not follow the same calculations to find out which planet rules a particular time though the order of the planets is the same.
First, let us know something about the days and then about the hour or otherwise called ‘Hora’.
 The names of the days are derived from both the luminaries and the other five planets, e.g. -
 Sunday — Tamil (Nyayiru) Telugu (Adhivaram) others — Bhanu varam, Ravi varam etc. in India. Planet in English (Sun), Tamil-
 Suryan, Sanskrit-Ravi, German-Sonnag(Sonne), Dutch Zondag (Zon).
 Monday — Thingal, Somavaram, etc. in India. English (Moon).
 German Montag (Mond), French Lundi (Lune), Italian Lunedi (Luna), Dutch Maandag (Maan) etc.
 Tuesday — Sevvai-Mangalvar etc. English (Mars), French
 Mardi (Mars), Italian Martedi (Mars).
 Wednesday — Bhuda; English (Mercury), Italian Mercoledi (Mercury), French Mercredi.
 Thursday - Guru, Brihaspathi, Viyazhan, English (Jupiter),
 Italian Glovedi (Jove), Dutch (Donderdag), German (Thor).
 Friday - Sukra, Brigu, Velli; English (Venus), Italian Venerdi (Venus), French Vendredi (Venus).
 Saturday — Sani, Mandha, English (Saturn), Dutch Zaterdag (Saturn).
 The results signified by the planets do predominate in the above order. Hence the names of these days are arrived at according to the effects agreeing with the particular planet.
 Probably, the same effects repeat once in 7 days and hence only seven days in the week are fixed; e.g., on Sunday some matters flourish; on Monday some other affairs thrive and after 7 days the same matters have advantage on Sundays, Mondays, etc.
 As regards the Hora division, the Hindus do not take the time of sunrise for their calculations. They follow strictly according to the time mentioned below.
 From the table it may be observed that the planets rule the hours in an order which is the alternate days in the reverse order,
 Suppose Sun rules a particular hour. Then note in the reverse order, the days of the week. The alternate one is Friday ruled by
 Venus. Hence Venus rules the hour, after that of the sun. Similarly,
Thursday is before Friday and Wednesday is the alternate one in the reverse order to Friday. Wednesday is ruled by Mercury.
 Hence Mercury rules the hour after Venus. Thus the order of the hours is worked out.
 It will be a pleasant surprise to note that after 24 hrs. that planet which rules between 6 and 7 A.M. is the same planet which governs the day. Therefore, irrespective of sunrise, the locality and the part of the year in which one wants to find the planet ruling a particular time, simply refer to the above table.
 But Westerners and Chaldeans calculate in a different manner. They divide the interval between the time of sunrise and noon into 6 equal parts and each will be little more or less than an hour depending upon the interval between sunrise and noon. Similarly the interval between moon and sunset is divided into 6 equal parts. Likewise, the time from sunset to midnight and from midnight to sunrise is worked out.
 But the order of the planet ruling the first hour (a little more or less according to this calculation) is ruled by the lord of the day. The other hours are ruled by the other planets in the same order as is followed by the Hindus. Only the duration of each planetary hour division varies. (Readers are also expected to note that the Hindus adopt this hora division in an arbitrary manner and it has no connection with the rising of the sun Hora or Moon Hora in the East. Kala Hora or planetary hours are different from Hora division of a solar sign.)
 Then, the doubt arises whether the hours mentioned are the standard time or the local meantime.
 What is an astrological day? It is the interval between the sun-rise on a day at a particular locality to the next succeeding sunrise. As a planetary hours commence from the time of sunrise which varies according to the Latitude and Longitude of the place, one is to take the timings in the local meantime.
 As we to take that each planet rules exactly one hour or are we to find out the interval between sun-rise and noon and divide
it by 6, likewise noon to sunset, sunset to mid night and midnight to sun-rise? So, a research was necessary to ascertain which is to be followed. The Modern Astrological Research Institute has found that ine second method is correct and the one hour systematic division needs modification.
 The sun rises in the northern latitudes, according to the season, any time between 4.30 a.m. and 7.30 a.m. If one is to consider that a day commences from sunrise and the first hour is governed by the lord of the day, then one is to follow the
 Chaldeans and should not follow the table published in almanacs etc., which is also reproduced in this article to learn and unlearn.
 Therefore, planetary hours will be exactly one hour, throughout the world only on two days in a year, i.e., when Sun passes the vernal and autumnal equinoxes on or around 22™¢
 March and 23’ September. On other days, the duration of each planetary hour varies.
 When one calculates the interval between sunrise and noon, divides by six and takes the first portion as the hora of the Lord of the day, it does not matter whether it is Local Mean Time or
 Standard Time. It is preferable to follow Standard Time, as the clocks are set to Indian Standard Time.
 Further division of the day will be the division of the Hora. To trace the exact time when the various events in the planetary hours governed by different planets occur, it is necessary to know not only the main division day and night called Hora hours or planetary hours but also the subdivision of the planetary hours of different duration.
 Suppose one wants to note the time when Saturn will rule its hour on Wednesday, so that one can avoid (a) to sign an agreement in that period or (b) to fix the marriage during that time or (c) to meet a person to negotiate any transaction etc.
 Adopt the following principle:
(1) What is the Indian Standard Time of sun-rise in that locality on that day? Let it be 5-10 A.M.
(2) What is the Indian Standard Time at noon in that locality on that day? Let it be 11-59 A.M.
(3) Therefore, the difference between sun-rise and noon will be 6 hrs. 49 min.
(4) Divide this by 7. Then you get 1 hour 7 min. for each division. . (5) The day selected is a Wednesday. Hence from sunrise 5-10 a.m. to 6.17 a.m. Mercury rules the time. The next is governed by Moon. Hence 6-17 a.m. to 7-24 a.m. is ruled by
 Moon. The next belongs to Saturn; i.e. Saturn is the lord for the duration from 7-24 a.m. to 8-31 A.M.
 Therefore this period is governed by Saturn on a Wednesday ruled by Mercury. Therefore this conjoined period of Saturn and
 Mercury are to be avoided for such actions as mentioned above.
 When this conjoined period operates in the night and one spends his pleasant time with his wife, he can avoid birth of children.
 This is an effective method of ‘Birth Control’ as both Saturn and
 Mercury are effeminate planets. But people, planting fruit bearing trees in such conjoined planetary hours, will have very poor yield; the loss will be not only due to locust, pest, rats, etc., but also due to the scarcity of water-supply and fertiliser. Hence for every action, one is to note which planet will contribute for peace, prosperity, success, etc., and which planets are detrimental.
 Accordingly one can make a selection and enjoy the fruits.
(Now the question arises, whether one can come out successful by selecting such periods, even though he runs a very bad period according to dasa or according to progression.
 People, running bad time (a) will never follow this, or (b) even if he tries to follow he will do in the evil sub-division of the planetary hour) What is the sub division?
 The planetary hour is sub-divided among the 7 planets (just as, a dasa is divided among 9 planets as Bhuktis and each Bhukti is again subdivided among the same 9 planets called antharams).
The first subdivision belongs to the planet which rules the hour and then the subaivision are governed by the other planets in the same order. Suppose the hora hour is ruled by Venus, then the first subdivisions belong to Venus and the other 6 subdivisions will be governed by Mercury, oon, Saturn, Jupiter,
 Mars and Sun.
 What is the use of this sub-division?
(1) Just as on a Wednesday, the hora of Saturn is to be avoided for some actions and transactions, so also, in the few minutes of the conjoined periods of Saturn sub-division in the
 Mercury hora and Mercury sub-division in Saturn’s hora are to be avoided.
(2) If a person enjoys Jupiter Dasa, Moon Bukti, he can undertake to do any important work during the Hora of Jupiter and sub of Moon.
(3) If Mars Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti operate to one, and if the judge announces the judgment favourable to one, then the time at which he passes it, will be during Mars hora. Jupiter sub or
 Jupiter hora Mars sub or Mars day (Tuesday) and Jupiter Hora or Jupiter day (Thursday) and Mars Hora. In the latter case the sub will be ruled by either of the two or any other significator contributing to his success.
(4) If one wants to construct a building, he prefers the conjoined Hora of Mercury and Mars.
(5) One desiring to get married, will select the conjoined
 Planetary Hour of Venus and Jupiter.
 The above is general. Further while selecting a Hora, the most important factor is omitted. Which is a serious mistake, ie., (a) one does not take into consideration which part of the Zodiac rises in the East and what the Lagna is (b) nor does one consider the position of planet at the time and their relative position to the ascendant, to the cusp or that house which signifies the particular matter and to the Karaka planet which also rules the same matter.
Indeed, these three are the important investigations to be made while electing a Muhurtha.
 But for common undertakings and the usual daily business,
 Hora will be helpful to offer confidence, peace of mind and mostly success.
## Sun Hora
 Sun is the lord of Sunday. The Hora of Sun will bé most potent whenever Sun is strong: i.e. whenever Sun transits in its exalted or own sign and in its constellation, Karthikai, Uthram,
 Uthradam.
 Sun governs vitality, immunity and speedy recovery from disease. Hence, to take medicine or to undergo surgical operations, solar hour is auspicious.
 As Sun indicates power authority, influence, dignity, honour and reputation, either to take charge of the following posts or to meet such people for assistance, select Sun Hora.
 Father, Government officials, President (Sun, Mars and
 Jupiter combination); Vice-President (Sun, Mercury and Mars);
 Governor (Sun, Mercury and Jupiter); Mayors, Judges (Sun,
 Jupiter and Venus), Physicians (Sun, Mercury and Jupiter);
 Surgeons (Sun, Mercury and Mars), etc.
 Sun Hora is beneficial for signing contracts (Sun, Mercury and Jupiter); to commit forgery or to undertake Hand-writing,
 Thumb impression expert post (Sun, Mercury and Saturn); to register documents, to approach for favour, to execute a will, to let on lease, to appeal for promotion, to complain to the Police about the lost property, to have mantras initiated and to concentrate, to enter into politics, etc., to purchase rice, cardamom, pepper, chilly, almond, groundnut, coconut, aromatic herbs trees with thorns, orange coloured articles, etc.
 One can commence praying to Suryanarayana Lord Vishnu
and also give gold to make jewels, etc. For vaccination, inoculation etc., prefer this hour.
Also, people who are governed by Sun or who have Sun as their ruling planet may pray to God for peace and prosperity during Sun’s Hora.
## Moon Hora
 Moon is the lord of Monday. The Hora of Moon will be very predominating on (a) Monday s, (b) Rohini star day (c) whenever
 Moon transits in its own sign, exalted sign and in Hastham and
 Sravanam star days. Also it is advantageous to note whether
 Moon occupies the Kendra position counted from the ascendant during. the Hora of Moon, when it is strong.
 Approach people during Moon Hora. Even the strong willed persons will yield. If you have to carry out the orders of a lady and if she is a strict, straight forward lady who may be moody also, arrange interview during Moon Hora. The hard paraffin will become the soft paraffin.
 If you are an agriculturist, all wet land cultivation, plantation, digging wells, excavating canals may be done in these hours.
 Moon Hora on Friday is good for harvesting sugarcane.
 If you deal in milk and milk products, dairy farm etc., Moon
 Hora on Sunday s, Tuesday s and Thursday s are auspicious to sell boiling milk, “Fridays” are auspicious to deal in genuine milk.
 On Monday s for adulterated milk, Saturday s for ice cream, etc.
 Those who deal in resins, greens, food materials, gur, and those who do business in oils, kerosene, petrol, acids, etc., can start business during Moon Hora. Moon Hora ona Monday and
 Rohini star day is ideal especially during Gothooli Lagna.
 Pearls, jewels, ornaments, corals, salt, fish etc., can be purchased in this Hora.
 Suppose you buy a marshy land, knowingly or unknowingly during Moon Hora, you will have much appreciation of capital value.
 Moon, the fastest moving planet, suggests that Moon Hora is advantageous for safe and successful overseas journey.
Divers should select Moon Hora, but the Lagna should not be afflicted by Saturn, if they want fortune.
 Musicians select Moon Hora, on Monday s or Friday s for fertile imagination and melodious tune. Tuesday s are beneficial for those who use drum, Mridangam Thabla, etc. On Wednesday
 Moon Hora is favourable for Jalatharangam. If Neptune is in 5" from Lagna, during Moon Hora and if it is in a sign of long ascension, learn Veena. If it is of short ascension, take to Fiddle. lf Moon is in an airy sign and it is of long ascension, start
 Nagaswaram; If the ascendant is of short ascension prefer flute.
 Thus, analyse and judge.
 Moon Hora is preferable for those who get appointment as midwife, nurse, etc.
 Also it is good to take up service in the Defence Department.
 You can plan, contemplate and scheme during Moon Hora when the merits and demerits will dawn in your mind and you cannot decide on an impulse or rashly.
 Moon Hora in the night is good. What for, need not be elaborated.
 For public activities and popularity, for platform speeches etc. Moon Hora is good, especially Thursday.
lf your mother is rich or your maternal relatives, discuss during Moon Hora, you will become their favourite and you will have gains without pains.
 On Wednesday s during Moon Hora, you can take appointment in the Textile Department and you may put on new dress.
 Hotels may be opened on Tuesday s during Moon Hora. So also for drinks.
 During Moon Hora, pray to Goddess Gouri and Lalitha for peace.
## Mars Hora
Mars rules over Tuesdays. It governs Aries-Mesha and
 Scorpio-Vrischika. It is the lord of the star Mrigasirisha, Chitra and Dhanishta. It gets exalted in Capricorn-Makara.
 Hence the Hora of Mars will be most potent whenever Mars is strong by transiting in its own or exalted signs or in its stars and on Tuesday s. suppose on a Tuesday, when Mars is in 23° 20’ to 24°-6'-40” in Capricorn in exaltation, in its own star and own sub it is in its most potent position, especially when it happens to be the 10" house to the Lagna rising then during Mars Hora.
 It is auspicious for the Commander-in-Chief to prepare for war. It is good to file any suit in a court of law. It is advantageous to argue during Mars Hora and win the case. On a Thursday, during Mars Hora try for compromise and fair settlement; purchase lands, start a brick kiln. On Saturday s commence trench or tunnel work. [Trench means, you excavate the earth vertically down whereas Tunnel is horizontal earth rather rock, removal mostly for railways, Saturn and Mars indicate Trench and Tunnel].
 If you want to use manure, Mars Hora on a Monday is auspicious. To purchase surgical instruments. Sunday-Mars
 Hora or the day of the lord of 12 and Mars Hora. To join duty in the Military, Police or Factory, Mars Hora on Tuesday is advantageous it is lucky to start a press, mechanical engineering, industry, building, construction, or open electronics shop on a
 Wednesday in Mars Hora. To join duty in a court of law or take oath as a President, Judge etc., Thursday is propitious.
 Goldsmiths, jewellers, may have opening ceremony on Thursday s, Fridays are also good. Mars Hora on a Thursday is beneficial for executive officers of temples or industry or church or colleges and schools and those who say that they relinquish the world and start preaching to others whether they practise or not. But those who want to practise, but are not very anxious to reach other can have it on a Saturday. On Friday, Mars Hora gives
vitality and satisfies the partner. It is good for union, for jewellery, for animal husbandry, for leather and hides, for coffee, tea boarding, lodging, cinema theatre, games, luxury goods, automobile, bullock carts, jutkas, agriculture, timber, furniture etc., to learn telegraphy: to deal in telephone accessories. To opena mill or factory prefer Wednesday. To prepare arms, spears, instruments, dagger to excavate, to construct a slaughter house, lethal chamber, to have lead or copper industry, to deal in hides, skins, shoes, etc., Saturday s are fortunate.
 Those who buy land during Mars Hora, and sign the document in the morning, say, between 6-30 A.M. and 7-30 A.M. having Sun in the 12" Bhava will not enjoy the benefit of the appreciation of land value, as the Government wil! acquire the land.
 But those who sign and purchase the property between 8 and 10 A.M. having Sun in the 11" house supposing that Sun rises at 6 A.M. will have the full advantage of the high price.
 You can buy coral, ruby and red coloured articles. Best time to construct a house would be at a time when Mars is exalted; when Mars Hora is on and the ascendant is Scorpio and the degree in Scorpio is between 0 33 ¥%' to 1° 20’ which will be
 Vishaka 4" pada governed by Jupiter and the sub is Mars. In that case there will be no difficulty for the availability of money, building materials etc. There will be the Blessing of Providence.
 For peace and prosperity pray Lord Subramanya or Muruga or Narasimha or Kali or Ganesh. For Subramanya — Begin on
 Sunday or Tuesday especially when you serve in a military department.
 On Mondays, start Kali; Badrakali, On Tuesday-Ganesh or
 Muruga-Veerabhadran; on Wednesdays-Narasimha; On
 Thursdays-Dhakshinamurthi, Raja Rajeswari; On Fridays-Veera
 Lakshmi and Lakshmi Narasimha. On Saturdays-Venkatesa,
 Venkatachalapathy, lyyappan.

## Mercury Hora
Budha (Mercury) is the lord of Wednesday. Mercury Hora is very strong and powerful on Wednesdays during the time when
 Mithuna or Gemini or Kanni-Virgo, rises in the East and on
 Ashlesha, Jyeshta and Revathi star days especially Revathi.
 Admit boys and girls in schools and colleges on a Mercury day during Mercury Hora. Even the dull witted will come out in rank.
 One can-start memorising from poetry, important stanzas, etc. Prefer Mercury Hora to deliver a speech especially on
 Thursdays. So also, accept the post of a teacher or professor.
 Accountants, auditors, mathematicians can select Thursdays and
 Mercury Hora. Painters, drawing masters, artists and dancers can commence on Fridays in Mercury Hora. Editors, publishers, book-sellers, printers, press owners, publicity organisations can start functioning on Tuesdays in Mercury Hora — most efficient work will be done if one commences during Mercury Hora. Daily newspapers, almanacs, ephemeris, ambassadors, agents, representatives, brokers, auctioneers can begin on Wednesday s. typists, should prefer Tuesday s, and Shorthand writers should select Saturdays.
 Treat neurasthenic patients and'those who suffer from Vitamin
 B deficiency during Mercury Hora. Those who commit forgery, or fraud, do it during Saturday s, Mercury Hora or Wednesdays
 Saturn Hora.
 Those who take service in the Postal department, Telegraph and Telephone Offices, overseas communication, Engineering, correspondence, etc. or purchase lottery tickets, bonds, securities, shares, or prize bound etc., must do so on Wednesday.
 Mercury Hora or on the day of the lord 11 and Mercury Hora.
 If you desire to float a company or to underwrite, Mercury
 Hora is the best.
For those who deal in paper, stationery, oil seeds, jute, wheat, quick-silver, emerald, green stone, onions, green gram, watches, telescopes and microscopes. Mercury Hora is very advantageous.
 If your proceed overseas as an ambassador or as a representative or for foreign studies or for foreign collaboration, prefer Wednesdays or Thursdays and never miss Mercury Hora.
 Important documents can be drafted during Mercury Hora with advantage.
 Pray to Lord Vishnu, Rama, Krishna, Anjaneya, etc.
 Try to concentrate. Vacillation is the only defect.

## Jupiter Hora
 It is otherwise called Guru, viyazhan, Brahaspathi, etc. It rules over Thursday. The Hora or Jupiter will be very predominating on (a) Thursdays, (b) when Moon transits in
 Poorvapathrapada 4" quarter (c) when Moon transits in Cancer exalted sign of Jupiter and in Sagittarius and Pisces owned by
 Jupiter and (d) when Moon transits in Punarvasu, Visakha and
 Poorvapathrapada stars.
 Approach people during Jupiter Hora. Do you want overdraft facilities from a bank? Meet the proper authorities during Jupiter
 Hora. Is Jupiter a benefic to you? Are you running Jupiter's period? Then, never miss to meet the ministers or high officials in the Government during Jupiter Hora. Success in your attempts is certain. Have you the desire to study Veda, Astrology,
 Philoscphy, Religion, Law, Economics, Banking etc. Purchase books and begin to read on a Thursday, preferably on Jupiter's star day and in Jupiter Hora.
 Do you deal in Gold and Silver? Is your income not satisfactory? Are you depressed? Open a branch on a Thursday in Jupiter Hora when Jupiter is in direct motion and is strong.
 You must have decent increase in income.
Always make it a point to meet commercial tax and Income- tax officials during Jupiter Hora. The interview will be pleasant, peaceful and profitable.
 If you are ill and if a physician offers any specific medicine to be taken internally, prefer this Hora. Even to buy a tonic, to take ayurvedic medicine, Jupiter Hora on a Tuesday is advantageous.
 Establishment of Stri Sadhana office for the prevention of prostitution, animal husbandry, construction of temples and charitable institutions, colleges, mutts, libraries, banks, etc., in
 Jupiter's Hora will prove to be advantageous.
 This Hora is very essential to purchase vehicles especially on Fridays during Jupiter Hora, or refrigerators on Saturdays during Jupiter Hora or lay foundaticn for houses on Fridays during this hour or take up minister's post on Sundays or Tuesdays in this hora or borrow money on Thursdays or invest on shipping or Petrol Shares on Mondays or take up a job in the educational department or air travel on Wednesdays, etc.
 Depending on the God or Goddess on its day, during Jupiter
 Hora, have the initiation of mantras.
 Note down Jupiter's hora in the night hours. Be friendly with your partner in life, wife or husband. Even if you had no chance to have a child so far, Jupiter will not let you down. It will fulfil your desire by giving you a child. If you have already many, avoid this hour.
 Open bank account, take up the junior auditor’s post or accept the profession signified by Jupiter during its Hora. Take up Insurance policy on Saturdays during Jupiter Hora. Your endowment policy will mature and you can enjoy the benefit.
 But if the insurance agents were to obtain the signature of a person, in a Life Policy during the conjoined period of Saturn and Mars, the Insurance company will lose heavily, whereas it will be a fortune to the members of the family who outlive the person who has signed his policy during Mars Hora on a Saturday or Saturn Hora on a Tuesday.
The Government has to choose Jupiter Hora if they lay foundation for hospitals (on Sundays), Shipping (on Mondays);
 Buildings for Police, Military Magistrate-Court, Law Courts, Industry etc. (on Tuesdays); for educational Institution, Postal Departments,
 Communication, All India Radio, Textiles Engineering, etc. (on
 Wednesdays); for Law College or legal department, Temples,
 Churches, charitable institutions, Banks, Treasury, Revenue department, International Trade, etc. (on Thursday s); Animal
 Husbandry, Food department, Agriculture, Tea Board, Coffee Board,
 Prohibition department, Gold Decontrol etc. (on Fridays); Insurance
 Corporation, Labour department, mines and minerals, control department, Intelligence Dept. Retrenchment, famine, refugee, quarters for servants, slaughter house, etc. (on Saturdays). Such a beginning promises, (a) no delay and difficulty in completing the project (b) expansion and improvement, (c) co-operation from the public and their wholehearted support, and (dq) fulfilment of the desire of the Government and benefit to the subjects.

## Venus Hora
It is otherwise called Sukra, Birgu, Velli, etc. It governs Friday.
 The Hora of Venus is very strong for Venusian matters (a) on
 Fridays, (b) on the days when Moon transits in Bharani,
 Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada constellations and (c) when
 Moon transits in Taurus or Libra or Pisces which is its exalted sign. if on a Friday, during Venus Hora, when Moon transits in its own star, one commences to do any of the matters signified by
 Venus, knowingly or unknowingly, success is sure. Peace and prosperity are promised. Harmony and happiness can be had.
 Prefer Venus Hora if you want to meet an officer who is generally impatient who is a hard task-master and who is moody.
 You will find that he is a calm and co-operating. Even a militant type of person, arrogant, foolhardy and rash will give a patient hearing and will be helpful. The temper gets softened during this hour. A cobra may be ferocious due to Mars. But if it takes its food, which is shown by Venus, it is harmless. The fiery nature of
 Mars will be toned down by Venus.
If you have to look at the girl or at the boy before fixing up your marriage, you select Venus Hora if you want to select this partner, but if you do not like the alliance you select Mars or Satum Hora when the negotiation will fall through and you can be happy. Venus Hora promises harmony and happiness, if you feel that you are exhausted and you have lost much of your vitality, take medicine, especially
 Ayurvedic (especially from Sadhana Ayurveda ashramam at Calcutta) on Thursday or Friday during Venus Hora: it will rejuvenate you.
 Write love letters during Venus Hora: You start writing after this hour starts and finish it before this hour is over. Even though you may not normally have command of language to give expression to your love, during Venus Hora, appropriate words will be used by you which will appeal to the partner. If you receive a reply during other Horas, do not be impatient. Wait till Venus Hora starts. Then open the sealed cover and read. You will be very happy.
 Now you may ask, “She had already written and posted the letter. How can the Hora change the contents of the letter”?
 The answer is this. Knowingly or unknowingly you can open the letter at any Hora. According to the Hora, you will find the letter. If it is Saturn Hora, then the partner would have mentioned the inability to meet you and she will fix up some other time. If it is Mars Hora, the tone of the letter will upset you. So, why should you.take a chance? Venus Hora will arrange for tea, dinner, cinema, music party, meeting in an unfrequented place, etc.
 Those who would desire to cultivate love, must prefer Venus Hora.
 Buy jewels, silk sarees, costly dress, diamond and costly gems, sandalwood, glass, powder, scented oils and scents, eyelash, lipstick etc., during Venus Hora. It will add beauty by moderate use.
 Buy a scooter or car or any vehicle during Venus Hora, preferably on a Friday.
 Start agricultural operations or open the industry to manufacture agricultural implements for tilling, ploughing, etc., especially on a Tuesday.
if you desire to have a poultry farm, cattle breeding or possessing race horses, etc., prefer Venus Hora. Contractors to supply spare parts, etc., to Railway, shipping, airport, etc., have to sign the agreement during Venus Hora on a Wednesday and those who would like to have honey-moon, have to commence their journey during Venus Hora.
 During Venus Hora, have the initiation of Manthras on
 Goddess, especially Goddess of Wealth, Lakshmi. On Sunday during Venus Hora, you can worship Chaya Devi; on Monday,
 Parvathi; on Tuesday Lalitha; Raja Rajeswari, Kali; on Wednesday,
 Lakshminarasimha; on Thursday, Dhana Lakshmi; on Friday
 Sowbagya or Dhanyalakshmi; On Saturday, Alamelumangai thayar, etc.
 Those who start milk dairy should have it during Venus Hora ona Monday. For rice business, Venus Hora on a Tuesday. For story writing, love leiters, pleasant journey, shipping clearance agency, agency for Textiles, Rayons, silk, perfumery, toilet, pharmaceutical products, cotton, fancy articles, hosiery for woman, biscuits, chocolates, confectioner, fruits, flowers, vegetables, etc., on Wednesday during Venus Hora.
 Lay foundation for women and children Hospital, animal husbandry, accountant-General’s office, Income-tax office, Law court, etc. during Venus Hora on Thursdays. Or join duty in such departments on those days and hours.
 Music Colleges, Cinema Theatres, Studios, Photographic
 Studios, Railway, Air Travel, Shipping, Stri Sadhana Hostels for ladies, Schools and Colleges for girls may, with advantage, be started during Venus Hora on Fridays.
 Vigilance Home, Famine Shed, refugee Campus, Slaughter house, leather, skin and hides departments on Saturdays during
 Venus Hora.

## Saturn Hora
 Saturn is otherwise called Neelan, Mandhan, Sani, Yama.
The Hora of Saturn is strong for the matters signified by
 Saturn (a) on Saturdays (b) on the days when Moon transits in
 Saiurn’s signs Capricorn and Aquarius, or (c) when Moon transits in Pushya, Anuradha or Uthrapadra stars or when the Lagna at that hour is in Saturn's sign or star.
 If you want to handle a violent person prefer the hour of
 Saturn.
 You practice yoga or meditate during Saturn Hora so that you will be able to concentrate.
 Write letters to Saturnians, Yogis, sages, mine-owners, landowners etc., in this hour.
 Sow the seed-bulbs, potato, tapioca or groundnut or sesame in this Hora.
 If you want to sever connection with anybody, this hour will help you.
 For illegal intimacy this is the best hour.
 Start petrol, oil, coal, skin, leather and hide business in Saturn
 Hora. Lay foundation for such business then.
 If you find it impossible to lead your life with your wife, do not tell her your programme but disappear during Saturn Hora. \f you tell her, she will come to the secluded place selected by you and continue to give trouble. Pray for Lord Venkateswars, lyappa during Saturn Hora. Prefer this hora to become a Sanyadi.