Visitor : Is Astrology a Science?
I : Why do you doubt? It is a divine Science to read the divine plan by referring to the nature - the creation of God.

Visitor : It is not clear.
I: It is a Science. Birth and Death, pleasure or pain, gain or loss, health and wealth are all enjoyed or experienced according to the divine plan. The only scientific and correct method of knowing the Divine plan is by applying the principles of Astrology.

Visitor : Is it possible to predict anything and everything?
I: For every Science, there is a limitation.
 This is why Researches are being made
to improve the existing ones and to supplement also. Efforts are being made to near perfection.

Visitor : Within that limitation, can one predict accurately?
 I: Yes. Yet the fate of the consultant should also be included. If one has to be disappointed at a particular time however much learned the Astrologer may be, in his case he is to err and he must get wrong prediction, the time of the event predicted being the querists unfortunate time.

Visitor : If it is a Science, how can prediction go wrong?
I: Is not Medicine a Science? Say people suffering from Typhoid are admitted in a
 Hospital; to all of them widal test was positive. The doctor administers mostly the same medicine. Say, one aged 24 and the other 30 die, the third had a relapse whereas others recovered. What do you say? Doctor same Science same-disease same-Medicine same.

Visitor : True
I: Again, do not you know that the great
 Scientists in America are trying to land on
 Moon? They were successful on many occasions. But Appollo 13 failed. Why?
 Then, is the Science wrong? While applying, there crept in some mistake.
 Similarly also, Astrologers may fail.

Visitor : But most Astrologers fail in many
prediction
I: How do you classify them as Astrologers?
Because they know the spelling of Sun and
 Moon; or, they produce some slokas; or they are born in that family; or, they continue to call themselves as old, veteran Astrologers, in spite of that
failures. If you approach such people, you will lose faith and you will call it as a pseudo science.

Visitor : Suppose I want to something, can
 Astrology help me in that matter?
I: I told you that our brains have limitations.
 The Science also has limitation. Within that limit, if you ask, correctly, it could be predicted.

Visitor : Can one correctly predict whether the pregnant mother can have a male or female child?
I: Predictions on natal charts are given taking the moment of birth. This moment is never changeable. It is only one moment.
 Suppose a boy is born. He, after some time becomes a female. How can one say from the chart it belongs to a boy or a girl, as the moment of birth and hence the horoscope remains the same? Similarly, the moment of epoch which could be calculated only after the birth is a single moment. If one does research taking the moment of epoch, it also can't throw light.
 Twins are born at the same time, one boy, one girl. Hence no method is so far found.
 Research is being carried out. At present there is no science to predict this. It should be discovered. If anyone declares that he can predict, he is a bluffer. If you had
contact only with them, you are not in full wrong in deciding that the Science is a pseudo one But you are correct when you say that the so called scientist is wrong and you can't over-estimate yourself and pass any remark on the developing science.
 Medicine is being developed day by day in leaps and bounds. Yes, do not you see In the case-sheets "Disease un diagnosed?" Even if medicine can be developed to a good extent, can they bring back the lives of all the dead
 Every-where there is limitation.

Visitor : If it is so, what is the use of Astrology?
I: Daily don't you see that people carry the dead from the hospital? When some people admitted In the hospital do not walk to their home back but are carried away to cremation ground, are you wise in advising people not to admit in the hospital? How many are cured? Does not this fact depend on their destiny? Similarly, if a few predictions fail, are you to conclude that
 Astrology is not science?
 Take the instances wherein a person expects, something. But he experiences something else as predicted by the
 Astrologer. The Astrologer does not know your affairs in full as much as you know. He takes only the moment when you meet him or takes a number from you. He is able to
predict correctly. This event, which he predicts, is not expected by you. Then what do you say?

Visitor : It may be a guess
I: No ! Guess comes after knowing the past.
 Here he does not know the past. Guess can be the habit of a few Astrologers after reading newspapers or knowing the past and present circumstances. If they come correct, they jump. If the fail, they offer lame excuses. They never take pains to know whether the method which they follow is universally applicable. Even when they know that it comes correct only in a few and miserably fail in many, they have no other go. Their pots have to boil; business has to go on. Such astrologers without opening the eyes of other or simply throwing dust on others' eyes, they apply such general principles and carry on their living; it appears as though they do not take pains to find out that happened to the predictions offered but presume that they would come true; or what does it matter whether it proves correct or not; or they probably know that if at all It comes correct, well and good: if not, the world is wide.
 Only such astrologers bring ridicule to the
 Divine Science without bringing to the notice of the queriest the limitations.

Visitor : Why should not the speak out as you do?
I: I know my limitations. I openly say, I do not care what another thinks of me. Speak the truth. Be honest. Mention the limitations.
 There where you can be very correct, declare the result. There where you can't as the Science has not I developed to that extent, don't take the subject; mention your limitations.

Visitor : I agree.
I: What is the use of dabbling in such subjects for which there is no specific, clear cut and exhaustive rules. I want to do research till the end of my life on natal charts and find out truth useful to each individual, to find out all matters connected with him and these should fit in for modern living conditions. What is the use of wasting time to find "How many wicks were in the lamp when one's mother delivered; how many attendants were there at the time of delivery" and so on.

Visitor : So, you restrict your research for natal horoscope alone.
I: Yes. Don't you know that Astrology has many branches? I want to serve the mass.
 So I do this research. It is advisable that every doctor specialises in some branch of medical science; a few brain specialists;
a few opticians; a few dentist; a few E.N.T. and so on. Similarly in engineering a few mechanical, a few electrical, a few sanitary and so on. Hence, one can't under- estimate to other. Each can develop in anyone branch. One can't judge the ability of the other. So let me continue my research.

Visitor: Why can't you take politics?
I: This branch of science is in an infant stage. In my life time, I want to complete the research on natal charts and then take up the Mundane Astrology.

Visitor : Do not you think that you can offer thrilling predictions and if by chance any of these come correct, you become popular?
Yes. Yes. Failures will exceed the success as it is not yet made perfect. So the same attempt will bring, ridicule and shame. Why should I either take risk or guess and be a laughing stock in the market?

Visitor : Suppose I ask you and simply to please me you work out with the available scientific rules and offer the predictions, what will be the accuracy of the predictions?
I: When the Science is incomplete, imperfect
and thereby the results can be incorrect, my prediction will come correct if the
person concerned runs good time and it must fail if the nature of event predicted fails during the unfortunate period of the querist. Many give wrong time of birth; there are some who do not know even the date of birth: such people also hold high position and varieties of charts are casted by different people and discussed. Such people are not for the advancement of the science by carrying out research on correct chart. They take a chance. But I choose the charts after ascertaining the accuracy of the horoscopes.

Visitor : Do not you have any method by which you
can predict events to a person who has no horoscope?
I: It is only for that purpose I did research on
 Horary Astrology and I have come very correct to offer 100% accurate results.

Visitor : Have you published any book on this
subject?
I : Yes. It is ready.

Visitor: By applying Horary system can you predict?
I: Certainly.

Visitor : Why cannot you do?
I: It is being done and it helps them in availing
the opportunity.

Visitor : Suppose I ask how long a Politician will live?
 I: First of all, I am not worried whether
 X rules or Y rules; secondly whether they are short- lived or long lived. If I have to please you by giving the answer, I do it only for your sake.

Visitor : Have you every predicted correct ones?
I: I do not believe in saying that X will have critical time in any year. But I give the date. I was very correct in the case of Late Jawaharlal Nehru, Late Mr. Lal
 Bhahadur Sastri, the resignation of Mr.
 T.T.K. and a few more.

Visitor : Why should not you publish before hand?
I: As I told you, I am not interested in their longevity. Secondly, since a third person puts the query and I answer him because I have to please him by correct prediction.
 Why should I publish and incure the displeasure of the person concerned? I do not want friendship of such people nor enmity. My prediction may be Interpreted in any way. So, my caravan will go on doing research work and finding some truth for the benefit of the people than to benefit myself with such cheap popularity and use astrology for my pot- boiling. I work to improve the
 Science and make it a pucca Science.