Astrology is a noble science. It is as old as the ages of the Vedas. It depends on the position of the planets ascertained astronomically. It explains the celestial phenomena and, he corresponding terrestrial events. The true meaning of astrology is the "Message of the Stars". By using the salient principles of
 Astrology depending on the position of the planets ascertained astronomically one can forecast events for the benefit of all and as such, it is a useful science or interpreting nature
"Astronomy is excellent; but it must come 
 Up into life to have its full value
And not remain there as Globes and Spaces" - Emerson
The whole world is run according to a well- defined plan. Nothing happens by chance. Astrology does not permit one to classify anything as an « accident, as it explains the cause and effect of events. 
 The divine plan is well arranged. It is timed with amazing precision. 
 Some say that astrology is an art. Some others reject it as an idle dream or an illusion. Still others may speak of astrology as though it were an altogether contemptible superstition. They contemplate with pity those who believe in it. Some of those who have no disapointment or other difficulties in life take pride in
saying that they have no faith in astrology and ridicule both the astrologer and the science. Probably they may fear that they may lose their self-importance if they were no recognize astrology. A few other say, under wrong impression or with prejudiced ideas, that astrology is not a science. These people would not have mastered the data on which correct predictions are based. This science explains clearly that such opponents of astrology will have in their horoscopes evil aspect between Mars and Uranus or between Mars and 
 Mercury. These planets, when afflicted, do not give quick grasp of this science, good memory and reproductive ability, and produce people who are either ignorant, arrogant, envious or are always inclined to find fault with what they are not able to understand. 
 Pretending to know everything, they display their ignorance. The antagonists often quote the opinions of such learned men, who do not want to admit that it is a useful science. Learning is mechanical acquirement of facts and gaining knowledge in any subject. But wisdom is not so. Astrology can be correctly Interpreted only by a person endowed with divine grace and none can call himself learned without knowing astrology.
A great theosophist, Mr. Chidambaram lyer, says that nothing can be more funny than to find young men, especially, taking up astrology, as their first subject of attack in their public utterances. It is a subject to which they pay little or no attention except for purposes of ridicule. In my experience, I find a few elderly members behave worse than such youngsters.
I submit that astrology is a science and that it can render very useful service to one and all and create faith even in the sceptic, if one studies this text book. 
 A knowledge about the history of astrology and the illustrious and eminent sages and savants who practiced astrology would give a better appreciation of the science itself.