FORTUNA
Fortuna is otherwise called Pars Fortuna. This is the most sensitive and fortunate point in the Zodiac.
 This position in the Zodiac moves at a speed much faster than Moon. Its position is calculated and arrived at to every native by adding the longitude of
 Moon counted from Aries Zero, to the longitude
 Ascendant counted from Aries Zero, and then from the sum, deducting the longitude of the Sun counted from Aries Zero. It is equivalent to adding the Thithi to the lagna. One can refer to the Ephemeris and obtain readily the position of all the planets including the nodes but the position of Fortuna is to be worked out for every horoscope Its position varies every moment and it moves about I degree within a period of four minutes.

While calculating the position of Fortuna we take the ascendant the Moon and the Sun. Actually these are the three, moving faster than others. Therfore births within very short intervals, will have the position of
 Fortuna in different longitudes. For those born around
 New Moon day, Fortuna is found in the Ascendant; for
 Sukla Thiruthiyai-born it will be in the 2nd house; for
 Sukla Panchami in the third house and for Sukla
 Paksha Saptami in the 4th house, and so on. For people born on Full Moon day will be in the 7th house.
 For all people born during Suklapaksha Fortuna will be found in the houses 1 to 7, whereas, for all people born in Krishna Paksha Fortuna will be found in between the 7th and 12th houses.

In our experience, Fortuna deserves serious attention, as is indicates certain results which are not
so clearly shown by the aspects formed by the transiting planets to those in the natal chart.

It is found that the results enjoyed by the people born within an interval of few minutes are diametrically opposite. So one is to try and find out which is it, that moves so fast as to form, opposite aspects to cause such different effects. It is true that the ascendant, the meridian and Fortuna are the three which move very fast and they alone can give correct clue for different results within a short period to the same person or diametrically opposite results to persons born within a short interval in the same latitude and longitude.
 Therefore, one should not omit to include Fortuna while erecting chart and offering the prediction.

Fortuna improves the matters signified by the house in which it is located in the chart. As per progression when benefics form favourable aspect to
 Fortuna, one will be lucky to have the matters of the house, occupied by Fortuna, one will be lucky to have the matters of the house, occupied by Fortuna enjoyed to the satisfaction of the native. But planets owning bad houses forming good aspects give adverse results whereas evil aspects offer favourable results.
 Beneficial planets forming evil aspects with Fortuna cause undesirable effects. Similarly during transits also one is to predict the beneficial nature or the adverse ones according to the aspects formed to
 Fortuna. Yoga-adhiipathis transiting the position of
 Fortuna bring unexpected advantages, Fortuna represents worldly success.

First House : Fortuna has nothing to do with longevity. Why? Because for twins born in the same sign as Lagna on a New Moon day or for people born on New Moon day Fortuna will be in the Lagna.
 It is not uncommon that some of them are short lived. There are instances where children born on the new moon day die in their infancy and at all ages.
 Hence, even though Fortuna is considered to be the beneficial point and Lagna contributes for long life, yet it has nothing to do with the longevity.
 Similarly, the characteristics of a person is not influenced by Fortuna even though the first house is considered for characteristics. But Fortuna in the lagna promises that the person will be fortunate, will gain in his enterprises, lead a happy life, came up by his own efforts and industry. He will work with confidence and have a brilliant and successful career.

Second House : Label him as a lucky man. One day gain through property make profits by business lead a happy domestic life, enjoy satisfactory bank position. Whenever there are good aspects there will be increase in income and improvement in status.

Third House : One can gain through brothers, make profitable short journey, be an adviser or a secretary, and gain; or take up agencies which will bring money in him without exertion and enjoy the good relationship with the neighbours.

Fourth House : One can come by a decent patrimony, save much in his lifetime, invest on landed property, amy find some hidden treasures or become suddenly rich with mine produce, or earth or minerals or metals. A wealthy person.

Fifth House : Investments, speculation and children contribute for substantial gains; ambassadors and young people will add to the fortune, he may lucky children. There may be gain through cinema, opera and drama. Taste for music, But if Fortuna is afflicted, one will have much loss, deception, wastes money in pleasurable pursuits.

Sixth House : Uncle and aunt will be lucky and they will be helpful to the native. One will gain through servants, small animals and doing banking business.
 One can enjoy the full co-operation and assistance of the bankers to have overdraft facilities whenever needed.

Seventh House : Gains through partners.
 Wealth through the partner or other sex. One may gain through contracts litigation, election, competition, victory over enemies when it receives good aspects, but if is afflicted the results will be adverse. There may be gains through associations, societies and clubs.

Eighth House : Some old relative may bequeath a substantial amount by will or one may receive money through partner or one may have a career-woman as his wife or gain through insurance business, or inheritance, gratuity, bonus etc.

Ninth House : Ambition for higher studies, aspiration for higher status, goes on long journey, makes money as traveling agent ; gains through the dealing with foreigners; make his livelihood through publication or discoveries; service in educational, legal, religious departments or international trade; exports and imports.

Tenth House : Brings name, fame; reputation in profession, promotion; if selection grade overlooking seniors will have promotion; will reach the higher rung of his ladder. If afflicted, sudden fall.
 Becomes a master due to good aspect and a beggar due to bad aspect. Both extremes.

Eleventh House : Beneficial friends, helpful brother, profitable business, realisation of hopes, fulfillment of desires pleasure, profit and permanent tie of friendship with powerful people.

Twelfth House : Lucky in purchases and sales; fortunate in investments and even secret inimical activities will ultimately do good to the native; gains from unknown sources; increases the wealth. If afflicted loss in various ways; 12th house is for Sukhasayana -
 Pleasant bedding and rest.