The History of Astrology begins with Creation itself. Sage Garga says that the science was propounded by the Creator Himself and that Brahma banded it down: to him at the time of creation. From
 Garga, other sages got it and it was spread all over. It appears to be co-eval with that of the Earth.
In western countries there is a certain belief that 
 Seth (3769 B.C.) was the world's first astrologer. This can be inferred from the astrological books written later by Arabic, Egyptian, Jewish and Persian writers. 
 Westerners believe that Seth was the first person to study the Planets, their motions and their pathway, It is he who divided the Zodiac into twelve equal parts, as he found that the Sun ever follows a particular path in the Heavens, year after year;-and he also noticed that this circular route of the Sun was spaced out by twelve full moons. Full moon occurs once a month. 
 Therefore the Sun's path is divided into 12 equal parts called 'Mazzaroth' which term we designate as "Signs", Rasis or solar mansions.
Around 2,600 years ago, the priests and the shepherds of Chaldea took this science for serious study and developed it. Their period was called the 
 Golden Age of Astrology, because they connected the movements of the planets with all kinds of events in human life.
Dr. Thompson says that the Akkadians and the 
 Sumerians observed the heavens and heavenly bodies
and tried to note their courses. The Babylonians and the Egyptians attributed some influence over the animate and inanimate objects on the earth Astrology was popular and it wielded great influence over the rich, the priests, the princes and the kings. Mespero said that, in his time, the mistress of the world was 
 Astrology.
Some are of the opinion that Astrology had its origin in Chaldea from time Immemorial. They suggest that the very name Chaldean means ‘Astrologer. The 
 Pythogoreans further advanced the concepts of the 
 Chaldeans. They applied higher mathematics. Later, astrology came into the hands of the Greeks. They concentrated more on Natal Astrology, as they had a deep-rooted religious nature and an enquiring mind. 
 They always posed the questions, "Who am I? Why am I born? What for do I live? Why are there so much of Inequalities in life?" They had the answers only through astrology.
Many of the records of the early astrologers of 
 Nineveh and Babylon are found among t1.e early tablets in the British Museum. Some of their finding are dated nearly 5,000 years ago.
The Greeks were also enthusiastic in following astrology. They erected the horoscope for the time of birth and presaged the finance, family, fate, fortune, and future of the individuals. One of the Greek horoscopes written in Papyrus about 2,000 years ago is kept in the British Museum. The Chaldeans who practiced this art of Astrology were held in high esteem even at the time of Alexander the Great.
The Egyptians were equally interested in 
 Astrology, which played an important role. They were also responsible for shaping the future of the nation. 
 As can be seen from the monuments, the inscriptions and modern investigations, this science dates back to 5,000 B.C. The Pharaohs gave much respect to the astrologers of whom Babilus was the leader. He was always consulted and the duty of Babilus was to find out the charts of those who might perchance gain power, become a rival and create trouble to the emperor. Whenever Babilus foresaw any such native, he informed the king who put such people. to death Pharaohs had faith in their astrologers. Often they were consulted to interpret the dreams of the king.
In Persia, the kings honoured the astrologer for their sound knowledge of this science. It is only 
 Gjamasp otherwise known as "Al Hakim" (meaning 'Learned') an astrologer in Persian court who precisely predicted the time of birth of the Prophets.
The Saracens spread the Science in Spain in 711 A.D. and the North Africans, the Moors, in 1237, carried the science to Europe.
Dr. Brewster admits that in China about 2752 
 B.C. from the days of King Fohi, they developed astronomy solely for studying astrology; and emperors were chosen according to the profound knowledge possessed by them in astrology. In 2513 B.C. Cheuni was elected as the King in that manner.
Whenever Alexander the Great went out, he took with him the astronomer Calisthenls in all his 15
campaigns. He spread the science in the East by giving out some of the rational methods adopted there and his visit to India had helped him to learn more and develop it further in his country.
Henry Cornelius Agrippa, born in 1486, was the astrologer to Francis I of France when he was 38 years old. John Dee was the favourite astrologer of Queen 
 Elizabeth. Abu Mezar of Bulah was the professor of 
 Mundane Astrology at Bagdad. The Caliph 
 Mammonarmsheed translated many ancient astrological works into Arabic.
Thus, every nation is to be credited with the knowledge of this Science. It is advisable to learn the experiences and findings of research workers who had contributed to the technique of correct prediction.
Let me mention the names of a few foreigners who have contributed to the development of this 
 Science. They were not only scholars in Astrology but were renowned and reputed Astronomers, Historians, 
 Philosophers, Physicians and Poets.
Astronomers : Ptolemy (67 A.D.), Galileo, Newton, 
 Pythagoras, Kepler (27-12-1571), 
 Copernicus. 
Astrologers : Alan Leo Sepharial Dr. W.J.
 Llewallyn Hayden George Agrippa [Simmonite Max Heindel Carter 
 Parter Morirus Maurice Sibley 
 Wemyss W. Lily Culpeter Boreham 
 Robson Newton.
Historians : Diodorus Coley Pabwal Maximus 
 Josephus Plutarch Camden 
 Herodotus.
Philosopher : Lilly Macrobius Aristotle Bacon 
 Thales Pliny Anasagoros Ptolemy.
Physicians Hypocrates Foster John Dee Gilbert 
 Partridge Agrippa Starkey.
Poets : Hypocrates Foster Galen John Dee 
 Gilbert Partridge Agrippa.

In India, it is said that it was the sage Garga who handed down the Science to his disciples. Further, there are recorded evidences that Yavanas were very learned astrologers and that they lived many centuries before, Varahamihira, who admired, in his text books, the progress made by the Yavanas in this Science.
 Yavanas have contributed much for the development of this Science in India. There are records to show that around 3102 B.C. the Tirvalore Tables were used solely for astrological purposes.
The following list furnishes the names of a few renowned Indian scholars who expounded, explained and interpreted this Science; Garga; Viddha Garga; 
 Asite; Aryabhatta; Bhrigu ; Brihaspathi; Badarayana; 
 Baradwaja; Bhadalla; Devaswami; Devala; 
 Dravyavardhana; Garutman; Jeevasaman; Kapila; 
 Kanabuk; Kashyappa; Latacharya; Manu; Manitha; 
 Maya; Parasara; Panlisa Pitamaha-Romaka; 
 Rishiputa; Sidhasena ; Simhacharya; Saka; 
 Saptharishi; Saraswatha; Savitra; Satyacharya; 
 Yavanacharya; Varahamihira; Bathothpala;
Prithyuyasas; Vaidyanatha Dikshithar; and many others.
Thus it can be seen that astrology was held in great esteem in all ages by the leaders in other sciences also.
As years passed by, for various reasons, this science, which is to live long, and which will surely live long, has lost some or its charms. But science remains ever a science. In every age, a particular science alone receives much attention and is developed, even though every science has its own innate value and is useful to us. No country had ever passed quiet without any advancement in any branch of science. So in every age anyone science may be very popular, whereas the other sciences may be ignored, though not totally forgotten. It is not unlikely that there are people even now whose names would come as a great surprise to all; there will be very earnest and loyal students of astrology who will popularise astrology.
This book is published with the sincere desire that Astrology should be made popular. Much of research is done regularly and systematically. 
 Furthermore, it has to be carried out. There should be fool-proof methods to read accurate results. Students of astrology with half-baked knowledge should be educated and imparted higher knowledge. Their doubts should be cleared. Those who bring ridicule to this noble science should be silenced by producing able astrologers who will give correct knowledge to them. It is only with correct and clear understanding of the subject one can predict astoundingly accurate
results, and establish that the noble legacy, astrology, given to us by our forefathers, is indeed a science which is as accurate as any other science. The present position of astrology, in the hands of a number of astrologers, is really deplorable. The excuse may be that there is no proper education to them and hence the result is unsatisfactory. Even when watches are manufactured by anyone concern, no two watches agree. If they are manufactured by many, one can guess, how they will be. Similarly, astrologers and a few other professionals usually offer different opinions, confusing the already depressed consultant. So I suggest that coaching up of students is absolutely necessary to have the same school of thought. To say that it is not a fit subject cannot be said as a wise statement from the astrologer's point of view.
In many other countries, astrology is included in ‘the curriculum. It is understood that, in American 
 University, Astrology is included. Also, there are schools of Astrology in Germany, Switzerland, Holland and France. Now in India in Jaipur Astrology is included. KULAPATIJI Dr. MUNSHI is conducting courses on Astrology in Delhi and Madras where I coach up students, and in Bombay, learned scholars with vast experience teach. Scientific circles there give serious attention to it. Astrologers are today thankful to the Astrological Research Association of New York which publishes a quarterly (Editor : Charles Jayne), and all Research Scholars are allowed to contribute their articles. At present in India, Astrology is like a 
 T.B. patient left uncared for, especially by those who alone can cure. It is handled by a few. Of them, same
are avaricious, some other have commercialised it by fortunetelling without the desire to maintain the prestige and utility of astrology. Some alone sacrifice everything for this noble science. the rash and worthless predictions of a few astrologers have debased astrology and these are received with sarcastic smile only to be dismissed.

Nadis
Some people fell sorry that they consulted "Nadis" written on palmyra leaves claimed to be written by the ancient Rishis of India. It is a fact that the events in the lives of many persons born and yet to be born are found written already by Hindu genius. People who have consulted add that they are dumbfounded with the surprisingly accurate happenings of the past events, but feel upset when the future prediction fall miserably. This is a common complaint. Thousands of years ago, Rishis wrote these wonderful predictions. 
 Whey they can be very correct in all the predictions from the time of birth of the native till the date of consultation, why they should fail in their future predictions cannot be explained. I also agree with those who say that this needs proper investigation because there are a large number of genuine Nadis and it is likely that a few may be unauthentic ones. 
 The solution can be found easily If the palm leaves are handed over to the consultants, by the owners, who hold the leaves and read out the results, as if from them. I am confident that if the palm leaves are given to the querist and if the reading of the past and present should agree correctly, the future must also be
invariably correct when alone the Nadi can claim to be one of the genuine documents. Our sages who had written Nadis can never fail in their predictions and they have never failed, because of their intuitive power and scientific knowledge.
It is not unlikely that a few readers of the palm leaves gain enough knowledge and experience in reciting verses, composed by themselves in no time. 
 A few of them, when they read the past events, have to read very strictly the material as in found in the leaves, because the past has to be correct. Then only, the consultant will hear him further. But when the future is to be read, it is open to doubt as to whether he reads only those materials found on the leaves or he himself coins verses suiting to the taste of the querist.
In one case, a consultant and his friend caught hold of such a fraud, the Nadi reader, redhanded, because he had Mahabaratham on hand and read his life by having those leaves on hand, looking at them and turning over pages after pages every 5 minutes. 
 Another experience at Benares was also published in the magazine Astrology and Athrishta. It is a pity that the existence of a very few of such people bring ridicule to this amazing Nadi.
Another investigation is also to be made to find out whether the documents are genuine and original. 
 There is the doubt, whether the authors, i.e.. the sages, knew all languages including Tamil, etc., in South India, as they lived in the North having Sanskrit as the Mother tongue and Nadis are found in all languages also whether they used paper and pen as some Nadis are
found written in paper and claimed to be original. 
 Whatever it is, there are records now, to prove that astrology was practiced by many people, thousands of years ago who could predict even the birth time of a native in 20th century, the place of his birth, names of his parents, occupations etc., and the events in his life; marriage, profession, foreign journey, property, conveyance, etc. They had such profound knowledge. 
 Now it has deteriorated to a very great extent, like a multi-millionaire having a few hundreds in the bank. It is more or less in a pitiable condition in India.
In fact there is probably not one science which is not properly understood, which so many pretend to know, and on which so many are prepared to express on opinion as in the case of astrology.
Westeners are always research-minded. If they find any truth in any statement and if they are convinced, they study it further, and develop it. It may be that there are failures. Yet they consider how it is possible to predict correctly in some cases, and why in other cases there is failure; and to find out the truth they make research till something satisfactory is
discos EGonians were observing the stars for more than 4,73,000 years. So says Didorous in his writings in 30 B.C. and they still continue to observe, record and further improve their knowledge in Astronomy which is the complement of the other science, 
 Astrology I have, so far, been briefly stating the fate of astrology in India and in other countries from the time of Creation till today.
Astrology-available date incomplete
Astrology today is incomplete and needs to be vastly supplemented. No one is in possession of ail the findings of our sages; nor are we blessed with such a Guru who can impart correct scientific knowledge to us. Whatever we may have today is only a part of what they have left behind. A subject taught by Professor will be complete. We are not fortunate to have such an advantage in our life-time. So with what little literature we possess, we have to understand the fundamental principles and then, by regular and strenuous work, develop it.
Another disadvantage is that in India there are many languages and the subjects were written mostly in verses. The first difficulty is to translate them correctly into the respective languages and get them printed. Hence all the books that are printed, in Tamil, are not found in Gujarati, Marathi, Hindi, Telugu, 
 Kannada or Malayalam. Some books in Gujarati are not available in Tamil; nor are they heard of by 
 Tamils.
In each language, only new books are produced. 
 Many are left out due to various reasons, the main one being the cost of printing and the lack of satisfactory encouragement from any source. Hence the ancient literature available in each place is incomplete like a torn-out Dictionary. It is a part of the whole. This is one of the main reasons why we feel the need to have a study circle and do research.
It is our view that one should know the principles of astrology by studying all the available books written
by various authors, both Hindu and Western. We have to collect horoscopes of different people especially twins, born at different times but in the same Latitude and Longitude, births in the same place at the same time, and births in different places having similar charts. They have to get particulars of actual facts from them, the nature of events that occured, and tile time of such events. Every method of prediction is to be properly applied in order to see which method is satisfactory in explaining the events in a precise and correct manner. If certain method appears to offer diametrically opposite results, the astrologer gets an opportunity to do more research with the material available and find out the inner truth of astrology, being in amendments, and suggest alterations to the original rules or supplement them by the findings which will prove to be correct, when applied to them and other similar cases. Thus many research workers and publishers have to co-operate, and publish in the present common language English, or In all languages in India, so that we can do real service to the public at large.
When we hear complaints from astrological minded people, we find that they do not ridicule the science of astrology but only those astrologers whom they consulted. The main reason for the failure of most of the astrologers is due to the defects in their methods of interpretation and their incapacity to satisfy the qualifications prescribed by Varahamihira.

Qualifications of an astrologer
The Sage says; "An astrologer should come from a noble family, should be good to look at, modest in
temperament, true, impartial, and with good physique. 
 He has to be active and courageous. He should be clear in his statement, witty, sincere and free from vices. He should have no stage-fear. He should worship Devas; observe fast and penance; and must be conversant with astronomy and astrology. In the astronomical science, there are five schools of thought in India: (1) Paulisa, (2) Romaka Siddhanta, (3) 
 Vasishta. (4) Saura and (5) Paitamaha. The astrologers should be through with all the Siddhantas. 
 He must be able to understand the objections and points of differences".
He assures that when an astrologer has thoroughly understood the mathematical portion and has acquired the sound principles of astrology, his predictions and teachings will never fail.
He asks "How could one who has not understood the spirit of the Sastras, be called an astrologer?" and adds that he is only a fool whose interpretation if just opposite to the principles expounded by our sages and commits mistakes in his calculations. Varahamihira admits "It is easy for anybody to cross a sea if the breeze is favourable. But it is not possible for a person, who is not a safe to reach the other shore of the ocean or astrology".
Varahamihira opines that even sages in forests, free from domestic worry, pride and prejudice, welcome the astrologer and without hesitation take interest in astrology when they, by chance, meet any wise astrologer.

Advice to Administrator
He advice the Kings that just as the night does not shine without a lamp and the sky without the Sun, so also the King cannot unformally have a smooth life. 
 He warns that the Kings will have pitfalls even like a blind pedestrian, if he has no astrologer to guide him properly, well in advance.
Varahamihira reiterates thus : "Therefore a King, who desires to maintain fame and enjoy an all-round success, must engage the services of a few leading astrologers who are not only versatile but also clever, well-versed and skilled in this science of prognostication".
He turns to the people of the nation and goes to the extent of saying. "One who is longing for peace and prosperity should avoid living in a place where no astrologer is available" even as Owaiyar said "Don't live in a place where there is no temple".
Varahamihira fears that a King who does not patronise such astrologer, who satisfy these qualifications, will surely come to grief and will be denied mental solace.
Varahamihira encourages and cheers up such astrologers saying that no man or woman who studies the science, of astrology and divines the course of destiny will be seen in Hell. In this world, by Hell we mean the worry, anxiety, disharmony, depression, disapointment and no ray of hope for redemption. 
 After death none knows what Hell is. It may be again a rebirth to suffer further. Thus astrology does contribute
beneficial effects to one and all including the astrologer: in whichever caste or creed the astrologer may be born, it does not matter, he is honoured.
Varahimihira says that the Yavanas were of low birth. When astrology had come to stay with them, they were adored.
Even now, if astrologers of their standard were available, they will be honoured as astrologers, and they can gain much influence and render real assistance to all those who approach them even as a river in space can quench the thirst of the human beings, animals, birds, aquatics, plants, trees, etc. But a quack is like a deep and dangerous river putting an end to the life of one by wetting the banks dragging him to the depth, immersing him to the bottom, keeping him there itself for some time, and finally lifting him up to float, dead.

Astrology-its use and Limitations
Astrology is a highly respected science; no other method of divination is worthy of mention.
If life's journey can be compared to that of crossing a river, the astrologer can be compared to an experienced boatman. Let us take the experience of one who is crossing a river. When one crosses the river by wading, he finds that the depth of water is increasing. At one stage, when he realises that the current is too strong, he is afraid and unnerved.
Luckily, for him a boatman is sighted. He called the boat man and asks, "Sir, can you kindly tell me
whether the river is getting deeper and I have to struggle further, or will it be less deep hereafter, so that I can cross the river without fears.
The boatman who possesses sufficient knowledge replies, "There is no need for fear. You have taken this route (which is your fate). The depth will increase as you proceed only for a short distance. Then fortunately for you, you will meet with a rocky stratra where the water will be shallow and thereafter there is no need for anxiety. So, you may carry on".
The traveller gets courage to cross with confidence even the deeper course. Is he not free from anxiety from the moment the boatman gives him the correct knowledge which the passenger does not possess. The boatman does not give him a life to cross the river by taking him in his boat. He only gives him the knowledge, whereby he gains mental strength, 
 Similarly, the astrologer by his prediction can gave the knowledge of the dark future.
Suppose one complains to the astrologer : "I can't understand why God does not help me to get married. I am 37. I am worried, I doubt whether God who created me has completely forgotten my existence. Why do I continue to live alone, I don't know.
The astrologer replies, "Sir, you are destined to marry only at the age of 38. Please wait; you will have your turn only then. However much you try, you can't get married earlier. Saturn delays it till you get dejected".
"Thanks very much. At least you have offered mental solace to me," he says and proceeds on his course.
The Astrologer has given only mental strength. 
 He has not relieved him of his worry by offering a girl.
Another may come and say, "Sir, the pressure from Bank and bankers is unbearable. Such thoughts, as to why I should not commit suicide and put an end to this trouble always flash in my mind. 
 What do you find in my horoscope? Is there any ray of hope to be free from these worries?
The astrologer says : "However much you try you can't clear the loans for a year to come. The bankers will be pressing you. You will somehow manage to give excuses. Days will pass on; next year you will be all right, your finance will improve so much (hat you will be able to even lend assistance to others. You may not believe me now. At that time, you will remember astrology"
No doubt, the querist feels as though he has cleared the loan. (No astrologer will give a cheque and give relief, even, if the querist, in his confused state of mind mentioned that suicide would solve this problem easily).
Thus interpreted in all correctness, a knowledge of astrology does afford mental strength to the feeble and weak-minded, solace to the depressed, peace to the anxious and worried and steadiness to those who are wavering the vacillating in mind. It is a common experience that when troubles come, they come in
. battalions and the afflicted person gets solace from this knowledge that the time is not far off when his or her troubles would cease to exist. A full fledged astrologer, capable of handling the subject with meticulous care, helps in no small measure to dispel the fears in the querist's mind and braces him up to face the future with confidence and hope. The astrologer helps one to have a glimpse of the unknown future; the knowledge of Destiny in store for one, stands one in good stead in surmounting difficulties that present themselves. This early knowledge renders it possible for one to reconcile himself to the situation one finds himself in, and any severe disappointment is unlikely since one is briefed as to when one can cherish hopes and the extent one can do so. When 
 Dame Fortune smiles and the world appears to be full of roses, few have any use for the science or for the saying "Man proposes and God disposes". With the frowning of fortune, egoism mellows down, and becomes subdued. The knowledge gained through the 
 Science helps one to be level-headed under any circumstances whether affluent or adverse. 
 The knowledge of the future prompts one to render help to those who are in need, banish evil thoughts from the mind and make efforts to lead a simple, honest and pious life. The saying "Do your duty - with sincerity and leave the result to God" holds out a more forceful appeal. Astrology proves that success or failure depends on our previous Karma; sufferings are due to sins committed previously and this thought helps us to be good to society, repeatedly saying, "It is probably because of some sin committed by me in
the previous birth I suffer now; let me not do harm in this life at least to anybody".

Kama - Inequality in life
The only thing which enjoys a fair distribution in every land is worry. Rich or poor, man or woman, every individual has his or her allotted quota of worry. Peace of mind is what everybody wants and nobody gets. Let us consider a few types of curses or ill-fate and how each one is worried.
A rich landlord secures tons of rice at every harvest, but is unable to take a bowl of cooked rice as he suffers from diabetes. Be curses his fate.
He who runs a group of High Class Hotels caters delicious food of all varieties to his customers and he has to content himself with it ; for he cannot consume even a bit of it himself since he suffers from blood pressure or colic pains.
An emaciated and thin-looking person with an income barely sufficient for the maintenance of two adults is blessed with enough children to form a cricket team of his own, while a very well-to-do neighbour in the best of health has none and the latter is depressed and does not know when be can have one.
A supremely intelligent person, who had been scoring top marks in the school, is forced by circumstances to serve in later life under one who is extremely dull-witted and is looked upon as a symbol of backwardness. The intelligent person earns a meagre income and carries out the order of the dull-witted. When he can have bright days is his worry.
A young girl with no grace or charm, gets married, but her neighbour who is very beautiful and rich with all the required qualifications for marriage, continues to be on the waiting list, forlorn and unhappy, in spite of serious attempts by relatives and friends. Will not they be in peace if they are informed by the astrologer with her destiny is and when they can fulfill their desire.
Thus it is observed that every person has bit or her share of trials and tribulations in life. If there is assuredly one science that lifts the load off your mind and enables you to face the future with confidence and hope, it is astrology.
The science of astrology alone explains why everyone has some worry or other and also why there is so much of inequalities in life and offers mental solace. The fundamental basis of astrology is Karma and Re-incarnation.
The whole world is a huge theatre. The cinema of life goes on for ever. Every individual is an actor. 
 The past, the present, and the future are already fixed in the roll of the films. The future will be shown in the same order without any alteration, and we enjoy or suffer as time passes on without any modification. The roll of film already taken is according to the Karma done by us in the previous birth and the story is the result in this birth and it cannot be changed.
Karma is a Sanskrit word, "Kri" means ‘action’ or 'deed'. Any mental or physical action is called 
 Karma; every action produces its reaction or result
which is known as Karma. Thus Karma includes both the action and the result governed by the irresistible law of 'Causation’.
So under the law Karma, there is nothing as a chance or an accident. The so-called chances and accidents are reality the products of some definite causes which we may not be aware of before-hand. 
 That which appears to be accidental or providential to a non-astrological mind is a natural and inevitable incident to an astrologer. Hence, chances, luck or misfortune are governed absolutely by the law of 
 Causation or Karma. God is neither partial nor unjust, and everything happens according to one's action in the previous birth. Man is completely a puppet in the hands of certain higher agencies. Karma and re- incarnation are like a seed growing into a tree which beam fruits yielding seeds which in turn produce more trees. The seed is the Karma. The growth of the tree is the life.
As is the seed, so will be the plant that springs out of it.
If one sows paddy, one cannot get wheat. When one sows orange one cannot get apple. Everyone creates his own destiny. One should realise that, it is because of his own Karma, he suffers. The doctrine of Karma alone explains and reconciles man to the terrible and apparent injustice of life. The knowledge prevents him from cursing life or fellow beings or God. 
 Only the divine of Karma can explain why people suffer, although they might not have done anything
wrong in this life, and they may explain that the stars are bad and that they do not deserve any kind of trouble. Most of us believe that the planets do not cause luck or ill luck. They only indicate the trend of events in our life. The cause is our Karma. It fructifies by the will of God. Without our previous Karma, God who love us all, who is just and impartial, will not give different results to the people who are His children, or cause troubles to them. You can compare God to rain water which is pure. Rain water enables the seeds to sprout and grow. But some alone thrive, and some die out. This is due to the inherent potency of the seeds. 
 Astrology explains what Karma one should have done in the previous birth and what he should experience in this birth and when.
A surveyor can say that the rain in Mercara will take the course of the river Cauvery and that in 
 Rishikesh will take the course of the Ganges. These course are earmarked, So also astrology can offer predictions and also classify those who will try to mitigate the afflictions or augment one's luck and who will not make any attempt at all. Every event will take them by surprise.

Destiny
Destiny is the inevitable and unavoidable occurrence of events in one's life which is not all under the control of the person but is directed by the Almighty according to His Original Judgment passed on the consideration of the Karma done by the person in the previous birth which is known only to His Almighty. It can be predicted by a wise astrologer. The belief that
one can modify or nullify the results of Destiny by exercising his will is not correct.
Natal astrology as propounded by the ancient sages is a convincing science, having its foundations of Karma theory; it should be possible for the astrologer who interprets it, to read out from the chart, the circumstances under which one is placed, his normal expectations, whether one will make attempts to hoodwink destiny and ultimately the nature of the result and the time of event. It is only when the knowledge of astrology gained by one is limited and the interpreter is not fully aware of Karma theory, he gives, importance to self-will and offers advice; he later understands that the native followed his suggestions and ultimately he enjoyed desirable results. He attributes all these to self-will. But he does not realise that what he predicted was incomplete. He has not properly under-stood the present, the circumstances under which one will be placed, what attempts one will make to alter it by exercising one's will and the ultimate result. Actually everything is found in the horoscope. 
 Attributing to self-well is no thing but attachment of importance to one's will and one's own self. Astrology clearly shows that man is postulated as the subject of a certain destiny and human endeavour as the fulfilling of fate.
It may be said, more as a compromise, that man is both a slave of the effects of his past deeds and is a free agent as regards his deeds which are in no way directed to thwart, arrest, alter or in any way modify or remould the effects of his past Karma. The past, the
present and the future are all recorded as explained previously in the cine film. The stars and the planets in their course denote our destinies, not only those fulfilled in the past but also those lying stored up for us in the future.

Fate-Inevitable
Able astrologers who have specialised in any branch of the science can boldly declare an event without and doubt and can go to the extent of taking a challenge that a particular result must happen, mentioning also the time of the event. The following few remarkable examples wills convince the readers.
(1) King Vikramathithya had many astrologers in his court. Of them, Mihira was an intellectual giant and the most renowned. He was admired and held in great reverence, not only by Vikramathithya but also by his colleagues and the general public. The King had a son. Mihira cast the horoscope of the Prince. 
 Other astrologers also prepared the boy's horoscope using different systems of calculation-Nirayana, Drik 
 Ganitha, etc. Kalidas and Vararuchi were in favour of the author of Panchasiddantika and hence followed 
 Siddhanta or Nirayana.
Whichever system others followed, all of them gave their opinion that the Prince would have an anxious time at the age of 18. On the nature of the danger and the cause of death of the Prince, they were not unanimous. Others were of the opinion that his Prince might lose his life due to the injuries inflicted by an animal while hunting. But the most learned and
wise Varahamihira who enjoyed the blessing of Lord 
 Adhitya, and had Divya Drishti and Vaksiddhi predicted clearly and boldly that the prince would be killed by a Varaha, i.e, a boar at a particular hour on a particular date.
He also said that no human remedies could avert the danger and save him from the jaws of death and that this unpleasant incident could not be altered. He said "AVASYAM ANUBOKTHAVYAM KRITHAM 
 KARMA SUBHASUBHAM", that the Prince could not survive even if all the precautions were taken.
Years passed. The Prince was maintaining robust health. His surroundings were well guarded even some months prior to the eventful day. On the morning of the fateful day. the King held a Durhar. A huge crowed was anxiously awaiting. The king requested 
 Varahmihira to verify his calculations and confirm whether the fateful hour would be the Same 5-00 p.m. on that day as predicted previously. All had their own doubts, because very precaution was taken by the 
 King. No wild boar or wild animal could have any chance of gaining access to the Prince's palace which was very well protected by a huge army of vigilant warriors. 
 The Prince was asked to take his seat in the seventh floor, and all the staircases were fully guarded:The 
 King was confident that his son was safe. So he asked 
 Varahamihira how could his son die from injuries, inflicted by a boar, when none would be allowed into the palace and especially when no animal could enter at all. He again requested him to reconsider deeply about his original prediction. The King also declared
that he would award the Emblem of the Royal Title 'Varaha' to Mihira, if the prediction would prove to be true because theKing wanted to honour this science.
Some minutes passed Absolute silence prevailed. The whole crowd was eagerly observing 
 Mihira to hear his verdict.
Varahamihira said that he was devoted to Sun 
 God and he is blessed with Vak Siddhi. No mistakes could be committed. Death from the injuries inflicted by a boar was predicted from the Prince's horoscope without any shadow of doubt. That was the penalty announced by the planets in the chart according to Karma done by the Prince in his previous birth. He repeated that the results of the past cruel 
 Karma speak out through the planetary position of the time of birth.
Therefore one should be prepared for the worst in spite of all possible efforts made to hoodwink 
 Destiny.
People, who gathered there, were confident that nothing could happen in such strictly guarded palace.
At frequent Intervals a warrior was asked to given information about the Prince's health. Reports that he was hale and healthy were received all right regularly. At 5 p.m. one warrior reported that the Prince was all right and the place was peaceful. Sometime later another soldier brought the same news. But 
 Varahamihira did not agree. He calmly said to the 
 King that the Prince had died at the stipulated time and it would be advisable if they would verify. The King
kept quiet. Another soldier, after some time, came to the assembly and told that the place was calm and there was no disturbance at all.
The King began to doubt the prediction, and again said to Mihira whether there could be any mistake in his calculation. Mihira reiterated that he was dead at the moment tie predicted. He further mentioned boldly that the Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood; probably the watchman and the companions might not have noticed it. He suggested and persuaded the King to go and see for himself. The 
 King with some important officers went up the stairs, one after another. The King reached the 7th floor. The companions of the Prince were deeply absorbed in playing games and did not notice the arrival of the 
 King. One enquiry the King understood that the Prince had been playing with them all along and that only a little while ago, he had gone out to the adjacent open terrace.
All quickly stepped into the open terrace. Oh God! 
 What a horror! To their great grief, the Prince was lying dead in a pool of blood. They found that his body was injured by the front claw of an artificial boar. Thus God's will, according to the Karma of the Prince, fructified, as indicated by the planets, without being averted by the efforts of the King and his subjects. Therefore all events in our life are actually beyond our control and we have to submit ourselves quietly and suffer the consequences of our previous Karma.
(When the place was constructed, the architect erected a flag staff and fixed an artificial boar made
of iron and mortar at the top of the palace eyes_as all the towers in his kingdom had this Royal Emblem. To none, it struck that this artificial boar mightbe-the cause of the death.
The Prince Just before 5.00 p.m. felt uneasy. He went to the open terrace to have fresh air. Exactly at 5.00 p.m. a strong wind broke the post into two and the Boar fell down. It fell straight on the chest of the 
 Prince. The injury was so deep that the terrible loss of blood resulted in his immediate collapse).

(ii) The prediction of the Soothsayer given to
 Julius Caesar warning aim that on 15th March then was danger to his life as Ides of March were there, proved to be correct. Julius Ceasar by staying at home could have avoided it. But this evil incident, which is to happen, induced Brutus to persuade Caesar and take him to the Senate. God gave one more chance to Caesar to pay respect to the prediction. On the way, 
 Caesar again met the Soothsayer who previously predicted the danger, Caesar said to him "Ides of 
 March are come", i.e., 15th March was on and the prediction did pot cora6 true. The Soothsayer calmly, and with confidence replied "Ay ! Caesar, but not gone", Le. 15th March was not yet over. Actually in a feW hours, Ceasar was killed by BrutUs and the end of 
 Caesar could net. be prevented by anybody's will or action; stars give &erect indication to correct the non- believers.
"Whosoever may be adopted to any
Particular event or pursuit will 
 Assuredly have,the Star indicative 
 Thereof very potent in his nativity"
- Ptolemy

(iii) The Emperor Pareekshit went to the forest and was tired after hunting. He was feeling very thirsty.
 He got into Angira's Rishi's ashramam. He was not honoured and attended to immediately by the Sage. 
 He lost his temper. He took the dead skin of a snake, kept it round the neck of the Rishi and returned home. 
 This was found out by the Rishi's son a little later. The boy cursed-rather predicted-that the person who committed this folly would die on the seventh day by snake bite. The King came to know of this curse. He tried to avoid it. Prayers to Lord Krishna, spending all the hours of the day by hearing Bagavatham alone, shifting his place of residence and taking all care, could not help him to out-live the time predicted. 
 Taksaka, the King of the Snakes, bit him and thus ended the life of the Emperor Pareekshit as told by the son of the sage.
Here is an explanation for the astrological principle that, whenever Saturn and Kethu conjoin, there is evil. (Saturn, stands for "Mouni" or Rishi, and 
 Kethu stands for the Poisonous snake).
This example is given to show that even after knowing the nature and time of the event, however mighty one may be could not alter it.
"Whatever betides, by Destiny it is done: 
 And better bear like men than vainly seek to shun" - Dryden"
One may try to commit suicide ; yet he will survive if this end is not indicated by his birth chart. One person
was very unfortunate. He married an arrogant, adamant and atrocious wife. She was always argumentative, aggressive and avaricious. He found it impossible to get on with her. He decided to commit suicide. He went to the sea to end his life. He was a good swimmer. He thought that when he was about to be drowned, the waves might carry him to the shore or he himself would swim and save his life. 
 He walked along the beach. He found a big tree very near the sea, in an unfrequented place. He took a long rope, climbed up the tree and tied the rope to the branch which was over-banging the sea. 
 While making a loop at the other end, he thought that he would suffer much when the rope would throttle his neck. So, he came home, took some 
 Intoxicating drug to deaden the pain. Again, a doubt arose whether he would die or survive. He became bold, took a revolver, loaded it and walked straight to the tree. He adjusted the rope, put on the loop, gave a kick to the branch of the tree and straight down he fell. While falling, the fired; because of the jerk he missed the aim. The bullet, instead of hitting his forehead, severed the rope. He plunged into the sea and went to deep that he swallowed a few mouthfuls of the brackish sea water which brought out the intoxicating poison. He swam the sea came to the shore and became wiser than before. Look ! He tried to hang himself, get drowned in the sea, poisoned himself to die and also used his revolver. 
 What happened? He escaped from all these methods of committing suicide. Why? Because, he has to live in this world until his end comes according to 
 Prarabdha, i.e., Destiny.

There is a catalogue of recent instance predicted « accurately by me. A few of them are given for the present; (a) luck; (b) longevity; (c) accident; (d) marriage; (e) incapability to go against destiny.
(1) I predicted that a high official would gain on 8-5-1955 a lump sum for a very small stake in races. 
 The native never used to go to the races. He was well off, highly placed, and never speculative. At the time when prediction was offered, I had my own doubts whether the gains without pains would be only through races because the native does not go to races. Yet on 8-5-1955, the officer was persuaded by his friend who had no knowledge about this prediction and was taken by him. The officer was witnessing and enjoying the races all the time. He who took him, without informing the officer, purchased a few sweep tickets and gave one to the officer who reluctantly accepted it and paid its value Rs. 2/-. The event was over. Can you guess what happened? He who purchased the ticket did not gain. But this officer got the first prize of Rs. 4,200/-.
(2) A well known Physician of Madras was ill and the medical experts who attended on him on 6-2-58 gave up hopes. He was very bad then. They all expected his end at any moment. His sons in their anxiety consulted me. I gave in writing that upon 26-6-58 their father would be having indifferent health; in May 1958 his health would be normal and there would be a happy celebration in the family; only on 26- 6-58 he would pass away. It will be surprising for the readers to note that every one of these predictions came out very true.
(3) To a Doctor in Saidapet, it was predicted in 1950 that on 19-12-1953 he would meet with an accident and that he would not escape it. On the 19th. he did not go to his consulting hall. He avoided driving his car; He sat comfortably in his easy chair at home and was absorbed in reading a medical magazine. 
 Meanwhile his daughter crawled and went under a cow, in between her four legs. The Doctor, by chance noticed it, got alarmed and suddenly got up. The floor slipped and be fell down breaking his left arm. There was the fracture on 19-12-1953.
"It is the Stars the Stars above us
Govern our conditions" - Shakespeare
(4) A high official wanted to celebrate the marriage of his son with a bride in Madras, though many brides parties had approached him. I selected the chart of a bride in Bangalore and said, "This Bangalore bride will be your daughter-in- law and not the one in Madras, though you have decided to have the Madras bride".
He emphatically said "No, No, No ! I am sure, your prediction will fail. Tomorrow the people from 
 Madras are coming to my house for betrothal."
"Dear sir, an ordinary layman's word may fail : but this is astrological finding. It cannot go in vain. It is certain that, even if Thirunethran were to bless you all, you cannot have the Madras bride as your daughter- 
 In-law".
The next day dawned. The stipulated time was fast approaching ; they were eagerly awaiting the party's arrival. The time fixed had come. Every minute appeared to be an hour. The muhurtha time had passed.
My words were ringing in his ears. He became restless. He was speculating. But my friend who was also there told that he was sure that the bride's party would not turn up ; for he had so much faith in me and in the Science. The officer decided to ascertain this, and be phoned. He was informed by a third party that there was a calamity in the bride's house and taking it as an ill omen, they decided not to proceed further in the matter.
The same day, the officer came to my residence and said that one part of the prediction had come true while the other remained to be tested. Days passed on and as already predicted; his son got married in that particular week, to the beautiful Bangalore bride.
Astrology offers astounding predictions. Laymen need not be disappointed by the unexpected events if one's destiny is already known ; he can take it easy, be calm, and lead a peaceful life.
(5) Here is an instance where a rich, strong-willed businessman miserably failed to maintain his word.
On 10th July, 1958 I was consulted by a businessman in Madras in regard to his illness. It was classified as a complicated disease by the medical experts after a careful clinical examination. It was predicted that he would be in bed till 20th of the month,
i.e. for another 10 days, though his temperature would come down to normal on 16th and that he could attend to his business on and from 28th. 
 Actually his temperature came to normal on 16th and he was picking up health. On the 27th, he invited me and said : "The prediction as regards my aliment has come true. In spite of expert treatment, the high temperature has persisted. It was in the hands of 
 Karma. So I had to suffer. -I suffered. But mind you ! I have decided on not going to my office today and attending to my business. Going or not going to office is entirely in my hands. You say that everything is destiny I can shape my destiny here, by exercising my will",
The eventful day came. It was passing on. At 2.00 p.m. from his office there was an urgent call to the businessman asking him to come to office at once. 
 He had to go. He did go to his office at 3.00 p.m. that day. He could not avoid going as the matter was beneficial and also serious.
Immediately he phoned to me and said, "Hats off Astrology has won : I am now phoning from my office".
That, even in such minor affairs, one cannot exercise his will and change the destiny, it proved beyond doubt.
(6) I was giving a lecture in Bharateeya Vidya 
 Bhavan, Delhi, at 6 p.m. : on a Thursday in September 1962. One gentleman came to me and interrupted in the middle, saying "Sir a week ago I lost a purse
containing Rs. 827- in the Bazaar street. I consulted a few ; all were of opinion that it was lost once for all - 
 May I know whether I can get it back or it a total loss to me?".
I asked for a number, explained it to the students and said : "Sir, you will be -getting It intact next - 
 Wednesday. It has been picked up by a Banker or an 
 Advocate or a Professor.
The next Wednesday, the gentleman got back his purse as predicted, bought sweets and distributed the same to the students. He said, "Sir, your prediction is wonderful. A professor had found it and handed it over to me intact only today, Wednesday".
As I am not writing to folio, I shall content myself with the above examples where I have made it clear that Destiny is unalterable and astrological predictions correctly presaged must come true.

Can anyone offer any other explanation for the following except that all were due to their stars, otherwise called "Fate". "Destiny", or "Karma?".
(1) Rama to go to forest, to fight with Ravana and then only Have His coronation, attended by Hanuman.
(2) Dharmaputhra to lose even Droupathi in the games and she to be put to shame, etc.
(3) Nalan to play games, bet, lose everything, go to forest, desert his wife Damayanthi, that too, at dead of night and serve as a cook.
(4) Pattinathar, a sage, who relinquished all his wealth, etc., and came out to spend a strict spiritual life, was wrongly accused of theft and taken to the gallows.
If we judge without any prejudice from what 
 Pattinathar and other; had empathically said we find the unshakable truth
"Oh ! Lord ! Nothing is in my hands, all happen according to your decree. In this birth, to the best of my knowledge, I have not even dreamt of any evil to anybody nor committed any sin at all. Even then, if | am punished now, for no fault of mine, I realise and declare that this is only due to the Karma I might have done in the previous birth".
Therefore Natal astrology is one of the branches of this Science with proves beyond doubt that the results we enjoy, experience, or hear are all due to our previous Karma.

Shanti to Ward off evil
Astrology is the Science which explains the law of nature. It is entirely based on the Karma and 
 Reincarnation theory. At the same time, it supports 
 Newton's third law of motion that every action has an equal reaction. It proves that no action will go to waste and also nothing can happen without a cause. That is why astrology is considered to be a convincing science. Accurate results predjcted by an able astrologer will surely come to passWbether one does 
 Shanti or not In all cases, Shanti cannot offer complete protection from evils. It does not give guarantee to all.
Those who believe in Shanti may ask, "if one can't modify or nullify the evil by doing Shanti, why have the sages prescribed varieties of Shanties to ward off evil? If every action has to produce a reaction or cause an effect, then how can Shanti performed go in vain without removing the evil? Hindus perform Pujas and Homas, pray to Gods and Planets, construct choultries and hospitals, feed the poor and the disabled, do charity and assist the needy, etc. 
 Cannot these, virtuous deeds it mitigate the affection? In other countries. though they do not perform homa, etc., yet they do charity or help the fellow beings and animals without having faith or expecting any beneficial result in overcoming difficulties. Even then whether they have faith or not, whether they do it with a set purpose or not should not such casual or continuous meritorious action help such persons to get rid of evil?".
Astrology says that Destiny cannot be altered.
 What is meant by Destiny is not generally properly understood by non-astrologers. Karma is that which is already done in the previous birth. Destiny includes all actions done in that birth and the results which one is to enjoy. One's Destiny may force him to do Shanti and give complete protection by removing the anticipated evil or only to an insignificant extent or it may prevent one from performing any Shanti at all. 
 Destiny ultimately gives the result, which one has surely to experience, without any alteration. The people have to submit to fate, otherwise termed 
 Destiny.
Therefore, people may be classified into four groups. One group will be those who do Shanti and
enjoy the results desired by them and may attribute to benefit to the Shanti ; the other group will do Shanti, yet suffer, without any appreciable redemption and say that however much they offered Shanti, it did no good. 
 The third group will neither do Shanti nor believe in it. 
 Though they live happily, roll in wealth, have success after success and enjoy enviable results. The fourth group never does Shanti, but ever suffers.
The circumstances under which one is placed, one's natural expectations and normal anticipation, one's performing Shanti either out of fear or for favour and the ultimate results are all due to one's previous 
 Karma. All these can be read from one horoscope and it is possible for the astrologer to estimate the seriousness of the Karma. Have we not seen in "Nadis" written by the sages that advices are offered to do various Shantis depending on one's past action?

Karma can be divided broadly into three kinds. "DHRUDA KARMA", "DHRUDA ADHRUDA KARMA" and "ADHRUDA KARMA".
By Dhruda Karma, it is meant, that one has committed an inexcusable mistake or crime in the previous birth, like murder, denying food and shelter to the invalid old parents, cheating the minor brothers during partition, denying the wages to the poor class of helpless servants, cheating, ingratitude, etc. Such malefactors, ungrateful children, dishonest brothers, mighty masters, and cheats may do any amount of 
 Shanti. They cannot ward off the malefic results to the desired extent as the crime is serious and unpardonned though to a negligible extent, it will be reduced, as no
action will go to waste and every action has its own result. But the same Shanti, done by people who have committed pardonable mistakes, mitigates the affliction in full and leaves them unscathed. Suppose "A" has borrowed Rs. 56,000 and "B" has taken only 
 Rupees one hundred as loan. "A" repays rupees one hundred. "B" also repays one hundred. "A" has yet to suffer as the loan cleared is negligible and the burden is yet more or less the same. But "B" is carefree and regains peace of mind. Therefore, such Dhruda Karma people have to accept the punishment, undergo the - trial and patiently endure the penalty. In Such cases, 'Avasyam Anubokthavyam Krishna Karma 
 Subhasubham" will apply. Whether they pray to God or they perform any Shanti, they should reap the consequences of the previous Karma with practically no appreciable modification because of the Shanti done.
(God is all merciful; yet He is all attentive to his 
 Duty in administering justice. He is fully aware of the 
 Karma which one has done in the previous birth, the 
 Shanti or virtuous deed one will do in this birth and 
 His impartial judgement is the result which one will enjoy. God knows what Shanti one will do, how far it would mitigate and What the result would be).
In the horoscopes of those who have doge
 Dhruda Karma, the Dasanatha, the Bhukthinatha, 
 Lagna end Moon will be devoid of the beneficial aspect from Jupiter and from the lord of the 9th house who indicates the virtuous deed done in the previous birth.
Dhruda Adhruda Karma means that one would have committed excusable mistake in the previous birth. It is just like an ignorant person having purchased a ticket to Bombay getting into Calcutta Mail. The 
 Inspector finds out the mistake and points it to him. 
 The passenger pleads ignorance and prays for excuse. 
 The examiner leaves him without any punishment. In such persons' horoscopes, either the Lagna or Moon or Dasanatha or Bhukthinatha will receive favourable aspects from either Jupiter or Lord of 9 or both. Here the crime committed is so simple that he can be excused on his humble application.
A constable can excuse a driver for having driven a car on the wrong side if he given satisfactory explanation like skidding or puncture, etc., especially when there is neither traffic nor accident. But the same constable cannot excuse the driver, if the car runs over a boy. Hence excuse or no excuse depends on the seriousness of the crime.
The third one is Adhruda Karma. The crime committed may be negligible. It might have ended only in evil thought. Suppose a young boy finds a fruit bearing tree in a house over, hanging on the road side and goes near it and like a vellture is moving there alone with a desire to have the fruit. The owner notes the boy and whistles. The boy understands that the owner is watching him and so he retraces his steps honourably. He does not remove the fruit. The boy had only the evil thought but he did not commit theft. Such ones may be classified as Adhruda Karma. In such person's horoscope, Guru or Lord of 9 will be in the
Lagna or conjoined with Moon or Dasanatha or 
 Bhukthinatha. Such people will enjoy life though they do not perform any Shanthi, nor pray nor donate for a good cause in this birth. One should not forget that 
 Karma of the previous birth and Shanthi or no Shanthi in this birth result in the final destiny which is the impartial judgement of God, which was already, once for all, decided at the time of birth. This is called as "that which is written on the head" (Thalai Ezhuththu). 
 This can be read from the horoscope. God writes on the head only once. He does not alter now and then as and when the Shanthi is done. Nor can the birth time be changed. The horoscope will ever remain the same. 
 Hence the results indicated must come to pass. We know that doing or not doing Shanthi is also Indicated in the horoscope. The variety of Shanthi which one may the advised to do depends upon the planets which rule his time and also the nature of the results which the native desires to have.

In a lady's chart, Rahu and Saturn are in the fifth house and both are in the Constellation of Lord of 6.
 The native was married in Mercury (Budha Dasa), 
 Jupiter Bhukti (Guru sub-period. Saturn Bhukthi followed. Years passed, it did not give her the pleasure of having a child. Kethu Dasa followed. Every fourth week disappointed her and her husband. The couple became anxious. They approached an astrologer who said that, in her chart, Jupiter was conjoined with Kethu in 11 while Sani and Rahu were in 5. So he advised that, if they do Santhi, they would surely have a child during Kethu Dasa, Guru Bhukthi in Moolam Star. As
per his advice, they visited Benares, then 
 Rameswaram, and finally Guruvayur Krishna, at the time when Guru Bhukthi just started, They also did some charity. They had a child born before her Kethu 
 Dasa Guru Bhukti ended. (Here the chart denotes the 
 Lord of Lagna is Jupiter who is conjoined with 
 Dasanatha Kethu. That she will take the advice and do shanthi is, clearly shown. Guru in 11 promises progeny. So she had a child during Guru's period. The child was born in Moolam Star which is governed by 
 Kethu, in Jupiter's sign Sagittarius).
It may be asked, if she had not gone to these holy places, could she have had the child. The astrologer will say, that she will have a child whether she words off the evil by such pilgrimage or not and also that she will visit, to wipe off the malefic effects and receive the blessing of God in the shape of a boy whether astrologer advises or not. Both are her fate.
(It is my finding that the sub and constellation in which moon will be transiting at the time of the birth of the child will be governed by the dasanatha and 
 Bhuktinatha or the lords of the constellation in which they were found in the parent's charts).

Two friends A and B request an astrologer to suggest some remedy (i.e., Shanthi) as they were suffering from eye trouble. The astrologer found that in A's birth chart, the evil period was coming to an end whereas in B's chart the future was becoming worse. He suggested to them that "Surya
 Namaskaram" would be effective. He also added that A would have the benefit, whereas B could not expect any
improvement. Both decided to do Shanti. 'A' found all favourable conditions for him to do it satisfactorily and enjoyed beneficial results. 'B' had many obstacles and impediments even to perform "“Suryanamaskaram", 
 With all that, he managed to do the Shanthi. Yet unfortunately, he had no improvement.
Thus it can be shown that it is possible for an astrologer to say whether one can have the chances to do offerings to God and whether one will have the advantage of such an action or not, by reading the horoscopes and ascertaining what variety of Karma he ought to have done in the previous birth and also the seriousness of the Karma.
Shanthi is of two kinds. One is Thrishta Shanthi and the other is Athrishta Shanti. By Thrishta Santhi is meant that one knows what Shanthi he should do and that he is aware of the results of such a remedial measure.
If one suffers from headache and takes Aspro or 
 Saridon or Anacin or Codopyrin he knows that these are specifics or headache and he gets the relief. A few, even after taking the specific may continue to suffer which is also their fate. Here the native is aware of his taking the medicine and also its curing effect. 
 This is Thrishta Shanthi.
Athrishta means that which one can't see with nacked eyes and non-astrological eyes. Athrishta- shanthi brings results without the knowledge of the person. Nor can the person judge the nature of favourable result he may enjoy and also whether
Athrishta Shanthi includes homa, prayers, pilgrimage, construction of hospitals, maternity home, schools, choultries, feeding the poor, donating blood, of fasting on Somavaram days, but the nature of the beneficial result which he may enjoy is not known. 
 That is why it is called Athrishta.
Thus it will be seen that astrology can show what 
 Karma one should have done in the previous birth, whether one will do Shanthi or not in this life, and the ultimate results one is to enjoy. It is also-known that every action will have its reaction, i.e. good actions yield desirable results, whereas bad actions bring evil to the native.
As doing Shanthi is always considered to be a virtue and therefore it has necessarily to bring favourable results to the doer, it is advisable that one either prays God or does Homa or contributes for a good cause.
The number of people who commit inexcusable crimes like murder amounting to Dhruda Karma will be very few. The number of people who do not commit any crime at all but occasionally think of evil, known as Adhruda Karma, will be still fewer. Both form a very small minority. But the majority of people commit excusable mistakes called Dhruda Adhruda Karma, 
 Therefore Shanti will be done by them with or without their knowledge and they will not ultimately suffer. 
 As a layman may not know which variety of Karma he could have done in the previous birth, he will assume that he is one among man and that the performance of Shanthi will give him solace and peace of mind and ward off suspense which is highly painful. He can entertain hopes and it gives mental solace.
Shanthi may be compared to taking prophylactic vaccine against cholera, or typhoid, or having revaccination against small pox. Such a preventive measure gives confidence and immunity. One can visit the infected areas with courage and mix with such patients though it may not guarantee that all those who had taken preventive measures will never suffer. 
 Even if one contracts the disease, the attack will be very mild.
If one does not perform Shanthi or any virtuous deed one can't be confident about his happiness in the future. There will be the doubt whether it will be peaceful or miserable. A few may live happily. But many will suffer from untold miseries,
One attends to minor repairs to his car before starting out and arrives it with confidence. Two other people drive without testing it. One car returns safely and other car breaks down. Is it not advisable to have the car examined by the expert, have the minor repairs attended to, and then alone drive? Just as the repairs can give confidence to the driver about the peaceful nature of the journey, even so the performance of 
 Shanthi will be hopeful to relieve one from worries and give mental strength during the period of suspense.
Astrology indicates who will do Shanthi and attribute the reduction of the evil result to Shanti alone. 
 The person may be ignorant of the fact that his fate was that he should do Shanthi and he unnecessarily expected a more serious trouble, whereas only a mild one was his fate.
Astrology advises all to be good, to do Shanthi in any form and enjoy life with absolute peace of mind.