Astronomy : Jupiter is far beyond the swarm of asteroids. It is nearly 500 million miles from the Sun.
 It is the mighty planet and is called the giant of the solar system. It has a diameter of 88,000 miles nearly ten times the diameter of the Earth. The radius of the orbit by which Jupiter moves will be around 143 million miles. It takes a little less than twelve years to go once round the Sun.
Even though the distance of Jupiter is so much, yet it appears in the sky as a bright object. It is brighter than all the other planets except Mars (Sevvai) and 
 Venus-Sukra: It is a planet of dignity. It shines brilliantly, when it is in opposition to both the luminaries on those new moon days; on such nights, it casts a shadow 
 Jupiter is visible clearly to the naked eye, even when 
 Moon is on the sky.
Jupiter is round. It is flattened at the poles. It also rotates on its axis, just like Earth. The upper parts of 
 Jupiter are not completely solidified. So the period of rotation, for all parts of Jupiter, is not uniform. It rotates very fast and it completes one rotation in 10 minutes less than 10 hours.
Jupiter has eleven Moon,s whereas Earth has only one and Mars has two.

Mythology : Jupiter is considered to be the teacher. God Dhakshinamurthi is represented by
 Jupiter to remove the ignorance and darkness, and to
, Offer wisdom by throwing light. Old Greeks consider 
 Jupiter as the father of the Gods-ZEUS Egyptians call it AMMON.
It is called 'THOR' by the Norse. Merodach is the name given by Babylonians and Chaldeans. 
 Jupiter is the God of Righteousness and of Justice. It is the symbol of Wisdom.
Saivaites regard Jupiter as Dhakshinamurthi, whereas Vaishnavites regard it as Narayana.
It is also said that Jupiter is Deva Guru, whereas 
 Venus is Asura Guru. They say that both are enemies. 
 They say that both are enemies. We have to differ from them,
Whenever Jupiter and Venus conjoin in the heavens, only prosperity is the result enjoyed by us.
 They do not clash in the heavens.
2. Jupiter is for the uplift of the soul; one leads spiritual life without attaching much to domestic life. 
 It is for ParaLoka-Sathana.
Venus is for all pleasures, including the car we use, the scent we put on, the furniture we sit on, the bedding we have, the wife we marry, the romance, the love, etc., so that one's mind is more to enjoy the fruits of life in this world. So, where is time for him to think of God Or pray for any advancement in spiritual life. He cares for 'Ilha-Lokha-Sukham'.
As their mentality, conduct etc., are just opposite to each other, they are called enemies, simply to impress on us, how they will lead their lives.
3. If Venus is an enemy to 2 Jupiter, how can 
 Venus have exaltation in enemy's camp Meena, governed by Guru of Jupiter.
Therefore what they say about the planets as enemies should be taken as mentioned above.
But this is, in a way, correct. That is people born in either of the Venus signs will have Jupiter as lord of 6 or lord of 8, and both the ownership are undesirable. 
 Similarly, people born in either of the Jupiter's signs, 

Dhanus or Meena, will have Venus owning the houses 6 or 8, thereby Venus has to cause evil for them just like Mars to Mercury-borns, and Mercury to Mars-borns. There also, their mentality will be just opposite. Mercurians think once, twice, thrice and then act, whereas Martians act first and think next.
If Jupiter is a benefic to you, by lordship and occupation, and if Jupiter has conjoined with other planets or has any connection with them by occupying their sign, star, etc., you can make a judicious choice and cultivate steady habits, concentrate, meditate, and pray or read stotras on them. 
 Jupiter-Sun Suryanarayana : 'Surya' Navagraha 
 Jupiter-Moon Rajarajeswari : Lakshmi 
 Jupiter - Mars Balasubramaniam : Kumaran 
 Jupiter - Dakshinamurthi czr Narayana 
 Jupiter - Venus Laxminarayana
Jupiter-Saturn Lord Krishna (Gita Parayana) etc.
Jupiter represents Indra. It governs power also. It rules Rig Veda and Hemantha Ruthu (December and January).
It is said to possess and offer 'Sathvaguna’. Our fortunes are governed by Jupiter who is called Chief
 Governor for Money. That is why Jupiter is called the greater fortune as it rules Finance and Family.

Astrology : Jupiter and the 9th house is one's horoscope indicate the extent to which one would have done meritorious deeds in his previous birth, and also how much of success, honour, fortune and glory, one can have in this life. However much other planets may be ill-posited and threaten difficulties to a person, if
 Jupiter is strong and well posited and threaten difficulties to a person, if Jupiter is strong and well posited in a chart, he will enjoy the providential help at least at the last moment to tide over the difficulties and get rid of evil. The threatening evil planets will cause such troubles; but jupiter, as the 11th hour friend will appear at the last moment, and save one when he will say ‘Daniel is come’, and his wife will be saved.
It was difficult to start a motor-bike. It stopped due to Police signal. When the right was given, the cyclist wanted to start. In the meanwhile, the car, behind him by chance knocked at the bike and it started without effort; car was His God!
A person is surrounded by robbers and while they are removing his cash and possessions, a jeep suddenly appears and the robbers take to their heels, while this person to saved, taken in the jeep and dropped in a safe place. The thieves, causing anxiety
to him, would be governecd by Mars; worry may be due to Rahu's position in his horoscope; but Jupiter will be forming favourable aspect to his ascendant, mostly from Venus sign; hence, the jeep arrived and saved him.
Jupiter is a fiery, noble, benevolent, fruitful, masculine, jovial, buoyant, optimistic, expansive, positive and dignified planet.
The disposition will be generous and candid. 
 Jupiter offers high reasoning ability and proper judgement. The higher attributes Of the mind and the uplift of the soul are governed by Jupiter. Hence it rules educational interests, law, religion, philosophy, banking, company administration, and economics. It ‘also indicates how far one will be religious, will respect the elders, preceptors, Mythology, Puranas, 
 Upanishads, etc.
Jupiter rules the sign Sagittarius and also pisces. 
 It gets exalted in Cancer. The symbol of Sagittarius is the Archer. So, those who are governedeby Jupiter will be quick to hit the mark. They love out-door games and exercises; otherwise they will feel uneasy.
Sagittarius has influence over traveling, as it is the 9th sign of Zodiac and the 9th house indicates long journey. Further, it is a common sign representing pendulum, oscillation and movement from one place to another and back again.
As Jupiter owns Pisces (Meena), the native will be quiet and unassuming, sociable, ease-loving and disposed to long journeys, and life in a foreign place. 
 In religion, one will have sincere faith. It will increase
the emotional side of the native. There may be some fondness for mysteries. One would like to be a detective or a writer of fiction.

Jupiter rules over law : So one will be law- abidding, true, honest, sincere and dutiful. One will be logical and broad-minded.
Jupiter governs Pisces, the 12th sign of the 
 Zodiac, which opposes the 6th sign of the Zodiac, called the Hospital of the Zodiac. Since the 12th sign 
 Meena is a watery sign, it shows that, by taking medicine by mouth, one can have cure. In olden days physicians used to administer the medicine in the "planetary hours" governed by Jupiter. Hindus generally put "2" before they start writing anything so that they can invoke Jupiter's influence by marking its symbol. Physicians, in olden days also used Jupiter's symbol before writing a prescription. But nowadays it has changed to "R".
So, Jupiterians will prefer to take medicine orally and have the cure, than to seek to surgeon's aid. They will avoid surgery as much as possible.
Jupiter, as a benefic by lordship also, gives geniality and generosity, joy, jubiliation and joviality are attributed to this planet. One can expect respect and reputation during its period. Co-operation and congenial atmosphere will be maintained by it; progress and prosperity in life, philosophic and philanthropic nature, good conduct and morals, peace and prosperity, health and wealth are also offered by 
 Jupiter.
If Jupiter is afflicted and owns evil houses, the native will not be a moderate but an extremist. He will, be very liberal, extrovagant and even lavish. Over- optimism, false hopes, carelessness, debts, dispute, failure in speculation, desperate attempts, gambling and pressure from creditors and banks, worry through children, false prestige, large donations beyond his normal capacity for charitable institutions, temple and religion, vain pomp, loss by relying on others and standing surety to them, cheap popularity, default and infamy, extravagance, gluttony and unusual girth, lambodhara, mis-judgement and miscalculation are all attributed to Jupiter when it is aspected adversely by other planets and if Jupiter owns unfavourable houses and occupies evil signs and stars.

Physical Features : Jupiter is said to be a judge
 Shakespeare has explained a judge as a well-built fatty, huge bellied per on. So also Jupiterians in youth will have good growth, have muscular body due to outdoor games, and become so stout that they.must be respected at least for their growth. If a man is already sitting in a seat intended for two people, and if the Jupiterian later enters, the person vacates, and gives room to the new comer, the Jupiterian. To other persons, it may appear as though the Jupiterian is respected though the person vacated lest he should be crushed.
It rules over Liver, Tumors, circulation of blood in the arteries and fat in body. 

 Diseases caused by Jupiter : Liver complaints,
 Jaundice, dropsy, flatulence, dyspepsia, abcess, hernia skin troubles, cerebral congestion, catarrh and carbuncles.

Animals : Horse, elephant and ox.
Bird : Peacock.

Places : Temples, Law Courts, colleges and schools, big palatial buildings, Durbar hall, Legislative assembly, halls where Purohits deliver lectures on
 Puranas, etc, or places where religious discourses are held. 
 Political : Huge projects, involving heavy expenditure, will be undertaken both by big business magnates and by the Government. Construction of 
 Schools, colleges, universities, charitable institutions, hospitals, asylums, sanatorium, isolation hospitals, ferry, shipping, quarters for servants, bank buildings, renovation of churches, mosques, temples, law courts, etc., will be done on a large scale.

economic : Free trade-without control-large yield-mass production-easy flow of money, larger receipts and deposits in Reserve Bank-Advantages through foreign ‘nations, their aid Benefit by Foreign
 Exchange, etc. As a result, activity in the stock exchange will be above normal. Values of shares will steadily rise. Bulls will have greater advantages. New companies will come to operation. Dividends will be satisfactory and Bonus shares will be issued. 
 Government will gain much through Income-tax and other indirect taxation also.

Products : All fat-containing food stuffs, butter, ghee, etc, sweet flavoured eatables, big trees, rubber, metals, tin, gold, etc.
G
ood Aspects to Jupiter : Sun forming good aspect with Jupiter, gives the native a broad outlook.
 Abundance, rapid recovery from even severe diseases are offered. The native will earn the friendship of all by his cheer, kindness and sympathy. 
 He will never betray anybody. He will think clearly, do his work ably, and will judge properly.
He will earn only by fair means and it will never be 'tainted money'. He will not benefit by the loss of others.

If Mercury were to give the native a promotion, . then the higher official will be transferred and that vacancy will be filled up by him. If Saturn has to promote him, his senior mostly will pass away, and he will be promoted. If Jupiter offers him a promotion in its period, there may be expansion, and he may be lifted by creating a post and in the chain of promotions, he will have his promotion also. Thus one has to judge.
He may be religious and may be one of the so many pillars of religious society.
Legal, finance, political, bank and educational - departments and institutions may be his occupation. 
 President, Mayor, Counsellor, M.P., M.L.A., Honorary posts, are offered either by Sun or by Moon, forming good aspect with Jupiter.

Moon, forming favourable aspect with Jupiter, give him a noble, magnanimous and optimistic disposition. He will be popular, honest and fair. His constitution will get strengthened, as he grows, and his reasoning faculty also will improve. His ideals will be lofty and his imagination fertile and fruitful. General success in his life will be mainly due to the good aspect
between Moon and Jupiter. There can be no trouble through litigation. He will not be extravagant; that is, he will not spend beyond his means and resources. 
 He will not take desperate chances in speculation or gam bling.

Mars and Jupiter in good aspect, offer the native sincerity, nobility and honesty. He will b straightforward. He will be neither too lavish, nor too conservative. He will be successful in business, and popular in society, as he will have much ingenuity and constructive ability; whichever job he undertakes, he does wholeheartedly. Out-door games will attract him.
 He will be a good sportsman, and hence will be offered to decent post in any concern, the general manager of which is a sportsman. Love of travel, desire for captaincy and much respect, abundance of health, vitality, power and endurance are attributable to this benefical aspect. To become the General Manager, 
 Managing Director, Agent of a Bank, Director of an 
 Industry President of any Society, Judge, Religious 
 Head etc., one must have this aspect. When the native runs the conjoined period of these two planets, he will hold such a position.

Mercury and Jupiter, in favourable aspect, are an asset in the native's life. He will always look upon the bright side of things. Even in times of adversity, he will keep -his spirits. His mind will be ever broad,He will be versatile. He will form a good judgement by intelligent deliberation. He will reason out correctly. He may be slow to form an opinion, due to Mercury. But his decision or conclusion will be fond incontrovertible,
Law, Literature, contact with foreigners, foreign collaboration, export or import, editing, publishing,
publicity, mathematics, banking accounts, auditing 
 Civil Engineering may be his various occupations, and in more than one of them, he will thrive. Plurality of interests is indicated by Mercury.

Venus, forming beneficial aspect with Jupiter,
 Promises grand success and good fortune. This native will accumulate wealth; enjoy all the fruits of life, will marry a good wife. He will maintain much of social prestige. He will be ever smiling, jovial, optimistic and large-heartened. He will have much of pleasure and enjoy life to the fullest extent. By traveling, he will form any friendships and will never lack ability to fulfill his desires. He will not lose through the treachery of others. 
 He will have partners in business who are born lucky. 
 He will be liked by all, in the society, club etc. As a politician, he will be loved, admired and respected by the public. His customers in business will never desert him. Bankers may sometimes go out of the way to help him. Advocates and judges will be much of help. As 
 Jupiter and Venus denote Accountant General and these two planets do not delay or cause difficulty, his pension accounts, pay sheets, etc, will come in time and he will not suffer.
But, those who have Jupiter and Venus forming evil aspect will not get their pensions in time even with the best efforts of the Department for prompt payment.
The native will earn substantially through auditing of accounts, music, animal husbandry, speculation and stock exchange and through trade in automobiles like cars, articles of luxury like jewels, scented articles, etc. If in the horoscope of the native, Jupiter receives good aspect from Saturn, he will have a philosophical turn of mind and will not have much attachment to his
relatives or friends. He will have a strogn sense of justice and fair play will earn the love of the young and the old will be esteemed high in society.
He will come by rich fortune if he is the owner of a mine, a dealer in cement or a building contractor under a co-operative scheme. He will lead a happy religious life with his wife and children and will enjoy good health and wealth. Later in life, he may practice 
 Yogasana and even become a Sanyasi.

Uranus forming good aspect with Jupiter will make him honest, trustworthy, sincere and liberal- minded. He will be hospitable and sociable. He will gain through influential friends, holding high positions.
 He will be an able executive director and may associate himself with secret organisations. He will neither act on impulse nor loss by speculation or law suit. There may not be many changes in his life. If at all, there is a change, it will be only because of some windfall. Those who have become very rich, in a short period, will have this beneficial aspect.

Neptune and Jupiter in good aspect will crown the native with success, as his character will be well developed. He will have inspirational and mystical nature. He will never be rash. He will never start a bubble company without forethought and allow it to end in crash. He will control his emotions.
He will be wise, will have a spiritual turn of mind and will observe religious ceremonies. He will gain through export and import trade and overseas connection and will not lose in speculation.

Jupiter's direction is north-east. It is in sextile to
 Vernal Equinox.