LETTERS TO THE AUTHOR
Reversed Dear Sir, 
Namaskarams,
As I have interested in learning Astrology and gone through various Tamil Text. written by various authors I found no shore to find a definite results or conclusions when a horoscope is taken for analysis and could only obtain rough predictions which would fructify mostly adverse.
After I have come in contact with your popular magazine ‘Astrology & Athrishta' and become the subscriber of the same. I hesitated not to obtain your most valuable works 'Krishnamurti Padhdhati', Vols. 1 & 2 and also the 'Table of House’ by Raphael for Northern Latitudes.
Your above works are of immense value to me and when I have gone through the pages of the 2nd vol. i.e., pages 166 to 169 regarding scholarship for study for higher education I was struck with wonder to note at the example and analysis. It reminded me to compare and verify with a horoscope which was just been erected by me with the aid of your works and the Table of Bhavas.
I verified the chart by applying your K.P. and surprised to find it most accurate in finding the results of past and present occurrences that the native has been experiencing.
(Sd.) V. Balakrishanmurthi Chinnasalem

Dear Sir,
Krishnamurthi Padhdhati in Astrology is a great achievement in Indian Astrology and Predictive Stellar Astrology. On the basis of this Padhdhati, the result is hundred percent correct. ‘Astrology and Athrishta', the monthly magazine is a Gem Astrological magazines published throughout the world.
I pray the Goddess Bhadrakali to give long life to Jyotish Marthand Professor K.S. Krishnamurthi to serve the nation in this great subject.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully, 
 Professor S.R. Janardhana Rao, B.A. 
 Famous Astro - Palmist of India

Respected brother Krishnamurti, 
I am a student of Astrology. I have purchased both the volumes of your astounding book "Krishnamurti Padhdhati". I am reading it very carefully and enjoying its ' every chapter. This book is your personal contribution to Astrology, which will ever remain permanent. Your origi- nal thinking, deep insight into the subject, and angelic predictions have captivated my imagination.
As a matter of fact, I wanted to join your classes at Delhi this year. Since I intend to take my M.A. examination for improvement of Division, I could not do so.
(Sd). P.N. Saxena 
 Warangal

Dear sir, 
It had been, indeed, my good fortune and proud previlege to have been introduced to you and more than that to hear your scholarly scientillating address spicing with humour. Hitherto I was very often misled by a mistaken impression that lecturers on Astrology will be dull, drab and insipid. However, interesting and enthusiastic the predictions will be to the persons concerned. Your lecture has left a deep and abiding impression so that I wish to become a devoted disciple with no material interest except to gain a working knowledge, if not mastery of "Krishnamurti Padhdhati".
I am very happy to learn that Swamy, my friend had been your student and disciple: Swamy is a gentleman who needs no description. Your association with him might have already revealed to you his sincerity and Guru Bhakti . I will be considering myself fortunate to meet you at the immediate time, if occasion and opportunity arises. We can come up with blessings of elderly and divine people like you.
Thanking you,
Yours faithfully, 
M.S. Srinivasachary, M.A.

Respected Guruji, Pranam,
I can't help writing that I am reading your Padhdhati again and again and applying to various horoscopes and every-time I am so much impressed that I find this as the only scientific and correct book I have studied innumerable books by various well known authors but never got so much satisfaction as I get from this. None even approached near it. Further I find out that your Ayanamsa gives wonderfully correct results. I have tried it on a number of known horoscopes and every time I found it giving amazing results. The people have gone fully satisfied.
It is really your greatness that you have not only found the truth but also that you have not kept it a secret and have tried to spread the knowledge in clear and scientific way without any ambiguities. 
I am writing this just to express the feelings I have in my mind and actually I do not find any suitable words.
You are really Great and Divine Grace is at your support. So learned but still unassuming.
I have to request you to kindly instruct your office to please send me one copy of each of the books written by you whenever they are published, I would love to have a copy of each. 
With kindest regards and best wishes.
Yours affectionately, 
 T.C. Malhan

From
M. Govinda Gowda 
 Senior Railway Office 
 Southern Railway Office 
 Mysore - 1
Respected Sir,
I took up studying Astrology from 1960 only as I could not get chance in my earliest days. I purchased books on Astrology, from various authors, worth of Rs.400/- till 1965. But I was not satisfied as there were too many rules and each author differs from the other.
After coming in contact with your magazine "Astrology & Athrishta" in October 1965, I purchased your valuable works 'Krishnamurthi Padhdhati’ and became a subscriber of your magazine. Now I am in a position to cast the horoscope and read out the events. But I sincerely feel that I should first get your "Ashirwad" to pre- dict confidently applying your system.
So I shall be highly grateful to you if you kindly bless me and send a letter-of "Ash iwad". 
I beg to remain, Sir,
Yours obediently, (Sd.)
 M. Govinda Gowda