MARS-THE BROTHER
Astronomy : Mars is one: of the outer planets. It is nearer to the Earth than any of the other planets like 
 Jupiter or Saturn, etc. The mean distance between the 
 Sun and the Earth is around 93 million miles, whereas the mean distance between Sun and Mars is 141 million miles. Both Earth and Mars go round and round the Sun at different velocities. Mars will always be outside the circle traced by the Earth.
Suppose that two cows are tied up to one post with ropes 93 yards and 141 yards long. They go round the post, and make concentric circles with 93 and 141 yards as radial. The cow tied up with the longer rope will make a bigger round than the other and it will ever be outside the circle described by the other cow with 93 yards rope. Similarly, Mars makes a bigger circle than that of the Earth and is ever outside the circle formed by the Earth. 
 Only Moon, Mercury and Venus can appear between the Earth and the Sun on certain occasions. 
 But Mars, Jupiter and other outer planets can never travel between the Sun. and the Earth and are ever outside.
Mars completes its journey round the Sun in 687 days, so that a Martian year is 687 of our solar days. 
 Mars is smaller than the Earth and its diameter is around 4,200 miles. It is just double that of the Moon. 
 The mass of Mars is a little above one tenth of that of the Earth. It is found that Mars rotates about itself in 24hours 37 minutes 23 seconds in the same direction
as that of the Earth. A Martian Sidereal Day is roughly 1,026 of our solar days. Mars resembles closely our 
 Earth in one aspect; that is, the axis, about which it rotates, is tilted up at an angle of 24 degrees 50 minutes. Just like the Earth, Mars has temperate and frigid zones.
Mars is red in colour and so its light is ruddy in appearance. It shines in the night so very brilliantly that one will not miss to notice it. It can be easily distinguished from other stars and planets. Mars is not clearly visible both in the early morning and in the evening immediately after sunset when it will be nearer to the Sun. But, when the longitude between the Sun and Mars increases, the latter shines more brilliantly than the brightest of the stars(Sirius).

Mythology : Mars is said to be the deity of the
 Buddhists and the God of the Romans. It is the God of war and also of hunting. Mars (orAres in Greek; Artes in Egyptian; Angaraka, Mangala, Kuja in Sanskrit and 
 Savvai in Tamil is the son of Jupiter (Zeus and his wife 
 Hera. He is the God of dispute, destruction and war. 
 He was disliked by one and all because of his warlike nature. Many a time, other Gods wounded him and conquered him. Once he was imprisoned by his conqueror; Mercury came to his relief and freed him. 
 He loved Venus who reciprocated satisfactorily. Mars was held in high esteem and honour in the Roman 
 Empire. In the Bible, Mars is symbolised by the Devil. 
 It is the God of force and energy.According to the 
 Hindus, Mars is God Muruga, Subramanya, 
 Kumaraswamy, Velayudham or Vadivel meaning the fighting power. He is considered to be the Commander
-in-chief of the celestial armies. Mars rules over "Sama 
 Veda".
Mars ruled the first month of the Roman Year, 
 March, and the eighth month of the Roman Year, 
 October. Certain days in those months were given over to Martian ceremonies. Until the time of Augustus, 
 Mars had only two temples at Rome both were connected operations originally one if the temples was an alter was an alter; while the other was the gate through which the army used to march.

Astrology: Mars is dry, fiery planet, masculine by nature. Mars rules Aries and Scorpio, gets exalted in
 Capricorn, debilitated in Cancer and determined in 
 Taurus and Libra. Mars is significant of energy, both constructive and destructive, depending upon its position, aspects and location in the horoscope. Mars has much to do with one's ambition and desires. Mars symbolises the senses and rules over the animal instinct in man. Generally, Mars is said to be a malefic planet. If it is not afflicted and if it receives favourable aspects, it offers the following good qualities as self- confidence, endurance, impulse for all ventures and heroic deeds, strength, courage, combativeness, sharp wit, faculty to argue, go ahead spirit, etc. Mars bestows one with quick m ental activity and extraordinary muscular strength great organizing ability, power for practical execution, independent spirit, force of character, strong determination, ambition to come out successful in the material field in spite of any opposition and above all, leadership in all pursuits. Mars gives the chance to accomplish almost everything which one desires, in a resourceful and ingenious manner.
If one is intelligent and sensible, he will never oppose a Martian, because the Martians will select the opportune moment to strike and also to withdraw. 
 They will act in such a propitious moment that the 
 Martians will surely inflict defeat on others. It is always advisable to make all efforts to enter into compromise with Martins instead of widening the gap, and inviting further trouble. 
 Martians combine physical delight and spiritual well-being when they live on a higher plane of consciousness.
If Mars is weak and afflicted in a horoscope, the native will be rash, will lose temper quickly and will be fool-hardy. As Mars rules over contentions and strifes, one will be quarrel some. If Mars is afflicted and weak, all the good qualities mentioned above will be absent, and he will submit himself to others. He may be fond of drink. Whenever there is any difference of opinion, he relies more in the application of brute force than to argue intelligently and try to convince logically. He is always ready for violence. He will not hesitate to take the aggressive parts.
Mostly, the worst type of sexualities is governed by Mars. Such people will satisfy their sexual hunger in novel ways. They will not mind about the pain they give to the partners. They may adopt malpractices.
Martians are said to be extremists. If they are true to anybody, they will go to any extent at the risk their lives to save their friends. They will sacrifice anything.
Beneficial Mars makes the natives adventurous and independent. They do not relish suggestion from others, but they will act according to their own conscience. They dislike small undertakings, but prefer to execute large projects. Many pioneers, leaders, heroes, warriors, and explorers are the sons of Mars.
"Mars is the chief governor for brother and landed property."

Physical Features : People born with Mars as ruling planet will have white complexion with a shade or red. The native will be tall and muscular. There will be pimples on the face. The eyes will be round. Their waists will be narrow and the bones will be full of red bone marrow.

Aspect with other Planets : Mars forming good aspect with Sun makes the body of the native hot and susceptible to sharp and acute complaints such as smallpox, high fever, etc. Good aspect between these two planets gives abundant energy and good health.
 There will be enough of immunity and resistance against infectious diseases. Both the planets give courage, frankness and enthusiasm. They will be self- made and lucky. If they from bad aspect, the natives are liable to suffer from fever, accident, wounds, explosions etc. There will be unnecessary disputes, excitement and difficulties due to rash actions. 
 Domestic life also will be unpleasant and unhappy. They get easily irritated and become violent. They will be worried.

Mars forming good aspect with Moon indicates that the native will be very generous, ambitious, bold
and enthusiastic. Robust health especially to ladies (as both the planets govern the menstrual periods), strong constitution and good appearance are given by Mars. Evil aspects among these two planets threaten the native with rash and impulsive action. He may be reckless and go to the extreme without considering the consequences. Both health and reputation will suffer. Accidents will be frequent and there may be profuse bleedings. Beneficial aspects promise improvement in status and satisfactory financial success. Adverse aspects portend losses, slander, end of life to any near and dear relative, misunderstanding, silly quarrels and irritation.

If Mars receive good aspects from Mercury, one will evince love for work; he will speedily complete all the duties assigned to him. This aspect offers vitality, vigour and valour. Promotion, prosperity, success in competition and disputes, bright outlook on life and adventurous spirit are indicated by the beneficial aspects between Mars and Mercury. Adverse aspects will make the native a cheat, a scoundrel and a thief.
 Also the native himself may lose by theft. He may be swindled by others.

Good aspect from Jupiter to Mars shows that the native will be determined, exercising free will with a go ahead spirit. He will be noble. He will succeed in competitive examinations and gain financial success.
 Logicians and lawyers will have the favourable aspect between Mars and Jupiter so also the bank agents political leaderS will be having strong and beneficial aspects between these two planets.
Adverse aspect between these two planets causes extravagant expense, loss through litigation, loss through investment in banks or through gambling. 
 There may also be criminal proceedings and prosecutions. De-promotion or transfer to undesirable locality or section is also indicated.

Good aspect from Venus to Mars is indeed very beneficial as the peaceful and passionate Venus will soften and tone down the fiery nature of Mars making the native courteous, upright, accomodating and diplomatic. He will try to lead a peaceful and harmonious life. Occasionnally the amorous nature of the native will overcome and conquer his free-will and independent spirit. He will be fond of sports and pleasurable pursuits. Courage, confidence and capability to do business will help him to amass wealth and possess landed properties with garden, etc. He may spend to his entire satisfaction and enjoy his life a good deal, forming fortunate atachements with the ladies and gaining popularity.
Bad aspect between Mars and Venus make one lavish, reckless, extravagant, and unmindful of any loss that he may incur. To satisfy his lust and desire he will do anything and mingle himself with low-class women or low-paid servants. A few will even go to extent of borrowing from low-class people and squander everything. If one were to exercise his or her strong will, one can avoid these troubles unlike those caused these troubles unlike those caused by the evil aspect between Jupiter and Saturn or Jupiter and Uranus. 
 Because these evil results are the outcome of his own mean actions. So, one should try to avoid troubles, ill-
repute, slander, disgrace, domestic unhappiness etc., and the dirty veneral diseases, by his or her strong will, determination and action. 

 Favourable aspects between Saturn and Mars is very beneficial as Saturn does not allow one to be impulsive, rash and aggressive. But it regulates, makes one bold and courageous and gives the native, force or character. Patience, endurance, health and activity with enthusiasm and executive ability will reward the native amply and offer good rise in life to occupy covetable posts. He never shrinks work, nor has any stage-fear. Even if he has to face many difficulties due to other combinations, he will go through the ordeal successfully.
Adverse aspects are, in some cases, very dangerous. Both are malefic by nature and if they also own evil houses, one has to exercise care during the joint periods of these two planets or during such periods, when they form aspects either by transit or by progression. One will be rash, get quickly irritated, will become uncontrollable, will be hasty and will even commit murder. Have we not heard of cold murders without any previous contemplation and planning but committed suddenly on any provocation followed by immediate surrender to the police authorities. Without any exception, we can see the evil aspects in the horoscopes of these criminals. Mars represents sharp instruments, knife, gun, etc., whereas Saturn is the chief governor for longevity; both represent one's end of life. To ruin oneself by squandering away, the permanent possession, to loss temporary possession by theft and to lose one's charm by suffering from
small-pox, etc., are attributed to the evil aspects between Mars and Saturn. 

 Beneficial aspects between Mars and Uranus show that the native will be resourceful, original and independent. He will have intuition and interest in occult subjects. To discover or to invent this beneficial aspect is very helpful. His latent ingenuity and abilities will be translated to action, whenever these two planets form favourable aspects either by transit or by progression.
 Bad aspect is as dangerous as that between Saturn and Mars. The native will get angry and when provoked further, he cannot be controlled. Perversion, eccentricity and doggedness will not allow him to pay heed to other’ suggestions but to carry on in his own line of action.
 He may become stonehearted and wicked. Whether he has any material gain or not, he will fight out to the last to establish that he is right. If he feels that the price of shares must go up sooner or later, he will not mind holding his purchase position for months, even though the market is weak, there is no support and the bulls are absent. To stick to his own idea and not move along with the current, in spite of the loss he may incur, is the result of this aspect. He will start any business in a flash which will end in a crash followed by disgrace and slander.

Good aspect will Neptune makes the native religious. He may make long journeys, have contact with foreigners, have foreign collaboration and gain much profits in wholesale business, agency, etc.
 Success to a satisfactory extent and jubilant spirit are promised.
Bad aspect makes him perverted in sexual life and frantic in religion or philosophy. His mind will be to poison others or to commit suicide by drowning or taking poison. Otherwise he himself will run the risk of being drowned in the sea, river, lake or well.

Thus the characteristic's of the native get modified by the various aspects received by Mars from the other planets.

Parts of the Body : Mars governs the external sex organs, muscular system, left ear, face and head, sense of taste, the bladder, nose, (It is concerned with both the reproductive and destructive process). Uterus, pelvis of kidney, prostate gland, groins, rectum, the colon, the testicles and red bone marrow.
Disease from which one suffers when one runs the period of Mars who, by its lordship or by occupation, becomes evil, may be any of the following.
 All acute fevers, Plague, Small-pox, Chicken pox, 
 Measles, Mumps, inflammatory, complaints, burns, ruptures of capillaries, Fistula, wounds, cuts, brain fever, Haemmorrhage Typhoid, Pueperal fever, ulcer in the intestines, Hernia, Erysipelas, Malaria, 
 Abortions, bleeding, boils, carbuncles, Appendicites, 
 Muscular rheumatism, Tumour, Septic poisoning, 
 Tetanus etc. -
When so many diseases are indicated by Mars, to pitch upon the exact nature of the aliment and to
diagnose it needs further deep study, thorough analysis and correct judgment. Else, Astrology will not be useful to the doctor and also to the patient.. One
can take precautionary measures (prophylactic, vaccines, etc.) Only when he is forewarned, well in:" advance and he can try to protect himself completely or reduce the virulence of the disease, if it is inevitable to suffer from it.

Profession : As Mars gives one courage and it is a militant planet, one will be employed in the military department. Police is also governed by Mars. Those who deal with guns, hunters and gunners will have Mars as the lord of the 2nd, 6th or the 10th house or Mars may occupy or aspect these houses, or be conjoined with the lords of those houses.
Chemists; dentists, surgeons, butchers and barbers are governed by Mars.
Those who deal in iron and steel, in the kitchen, in the boilers, steam engines, etc., are under the rule of Mars:
It also indicates, the smiths industry, factory, dealers in corals, ruby, red articles, thief robber, dacoit, murder, etc.
Mars in the fiery signs shows that he will go to the war front and fight. In earthy signs, it indicates infantry. Mars occupying airy sign denotes Air pilots. 
 Watery sign occupied by Mars indicates Navy. So also, planet's conjolined with Mars or aspecting Mars. give clue to find out the exact nature of one's profession. 
 Sun conjoined with Mars indicates that he may be in the accounts or audit department, as Mercury stands for inspection of accounts; military or mechanical engineering is also governed by Mars and Mercury. 
 Venus rules over transport. Saturn indicates that he
may be employed in digging trenches, graves, etc., and also to carry the wounded as well as to dispose of the dead. -
Products : Iron and Steel. Coffee, Tea, Cholam, 
 Shellac, Tobbaco, Hemp, Wallnut, Cashewnut, 
 Groundnut, Betel nut, Ginger, Pine, Mustards, Nux 
 Vomica, Gentiane, Garlick, Brandy, Whisky, Arrack, 
 Toddy, Bhaspum (Powders), Metallic Oxides,Pungent articles, Axe, Knife, Sword, Gun etc., Copper, Wrapon called Sataghni, landed properties, serpent, thorny plants, Land, Building, old materials, old instruments for repairs, and renewal.
Mars and Saturn denote iron and steel; Mars and 
 Venus show coffee, tea etc. Mars and Neptune indicate tobacco, Mars and Moon rule over Brandy, 
 Whisky, etc. Mars and Rahu or Kethu suggest serpents.

Political : Differences of opinion, disputes, difficulties, misunderstandings and quarrels among leaders. Preparation for war and fight in battle field, restlessness in the state, revolution, violence, murder, rape, loot, bloodshed, arson, kidnapping, etc., Cordite
 Factory, manufacture of arms and ammunition, bombs, fireworks, tanks, weapons, acids, etc. Reorganisation or expansion of industry, factory, etc., producing chemicals, fertilisers, tractors, jeeps, arms and the distinctive and death inflicting weapons; nationalisation of such industries; drastic laws and reforms; Martial Law and Ordinance, expropriation of 
 Foreign Capital; expansion of agriculture; reclamation of waste lands; marshy lands etc. Controls of the produce governed by Mars. Restriction in their movement, sales etc.

Economic : Whenever Mars forms beneficial aspects, there will be great activity and new ventures will be undertaken. In the market, there will be brisk buying and selling. New companies will be floated.
 Good aspects at the time of the registration of the company show that it will be sound and profitable. Bad aspects forewarn that the relationship among the directors will not be cordial. There will be mis- understanding and difficulties. Manufacture of motors, engines, spare parts of machines, tools etc., and the export and import of these are ruled by Mars. As it is called Boomi Karaka and it is also fiery planet, manufacture of brick, construction of buildings, quarters for officials and servants are ruled by Mars. 
 Being an impulsive and rash planet, the prices of shares will suddenly have a sharp rise or if Mars is afflicted by Saturn, Uranus, Neptune etc., a preciptious fall. Good aspect gives courage to Bulls and bad aspect depresses them but gives go ahead spirit to the Bears. 
 There will be strikes by Krisans, Technicians, 
 Mechanics and subordinates and in consequence agriculture and in consequence agriculture and industry will be affected. Jupiter and Venus afflicting 
 Mars threaten the cultivators with loss and disapointment, as the agriculture produce will be affected by locusts, pests, rats, etc. There will be increase in the tax to launch new projects to due to war preparations and stockpiling. Purchases of Fire 
 Engines, Expansion of Fire Extinguishing Department, 
 Expansion of Vigilance, A.R.P., etc., are also governed by Mars.

Handwriting : Mars gives sharp angles and narrow hooks. The upper zone will be short whereas the lower zone will be long and strong. His words will invariably slant towards the right. Only very rarely, he writes upright. The strokes of his words will be thick.
 He will separate his words lavishly and waste much paper. But he will not waste much time to write. He finds that putting a dot over ‘i’ and drawing a horizontal stroke for 't' are waste of time. He will boldly underline his signature which will ascend from left to right.

Animals and Birds : Savage Beasts, Tiger,
 Wolf, Hunting Dogs, Etc., and also Elephant according to Brihat Samhita, Vulture, Kite, Hawk, etc.

Plant and Herbs : Thorny plants, gentian, garlick, groom, mustard, hemp, coriander, tobacco, pine red ones.

Places in India : Mars presides over Narmada,
 Bheemaratha, Nivindhya, Vetravatee, Godavari, Vena, 
 Ganges, Mahanadhee, Sindhu, Uttara Pandya, near mount Mahendra, Vindhya, Malaya, Chola, Dravida, 
 Videha, Andhra, Kerala, Asmaka, Bhasapara Kuntalai, 
 Cantipura, Nassik, Bhogavardhana, Tupte,Gomptee, etc.

Places : War field, Military areas, Slaughter houses, police station, Industrial area, Smith's shops, etc.

Time : The two months governed by Mars are termed as Grisham Ruthu-June and July.

Days : Mars rules over Tuesdays. Sundays and - Mondays will prove to be the days of success, pleasure
and profit. Fridays shows pleasure, union and expense. 
 Wednesdays affect health, yet increase one' s income and improve one's business and give frequent short journeys. Thursdays are for investment, expansion and long journey. Saturday will be dull and lethargic.

Number : 9 is the number of Mars. 1,2,4,7 are auspicious. 3 shows journey and pleasant purchases. 5 is lucky, yet health will deteriorate. 6 shows pleasure and expenses. 8 threatens that the native will be lazy and enjoy success when he gets dejected.

Colour : Red is ruled by Mars. If one is very impulsive or rash, he can use blue, so that he can exercise caution and avoid injuries. While one selects a colour, it is very important to note the weak points of the native for corrections and improvement. If Mars is very strong and is in fiery or airy sign, he will be very bold and even rash. For such people, green and blue are the colours best suited to cool them down and keep them under control. They will not be rash but they will have enthusiasm and practical executive ability. If Mars indicates one's disease, the astrologer has to consider the nature of the ailment and suggest the colour accordingly. If Mars and Moon cause small-pox, use red colour for the panes, glass-doors, screen cloth etc. so that the patient will have rapid cure and he will not appear pox-faced as no scars and pits will be formed due to exposure to red colour. But if Mars and Mercury cause excitement, insanity of fits, use blue and green when he will come to normal. But if one is gloomy, dull, lethargic and lazy, use red; inferiority complex will disappear. He will make fresh attempts and come out successful, even though he had been
suffering for a long period due to delay or denial. Red colour offers authority and power; it is useful to overcome dangers, and avoid accidents. That is why 
 Police Station is red. Policemen are supplied with red caps; fire engine has red paints and red signals stop one from further proceeding in the same direction at that time, to avoid collision, derailment, accidents, etc. 
 All these show that red colour is used to avoid danger, to run no risk, to maintain law and order and to lead a happy life.

Gems : Coral, ruby and all red stones are governed by Mars. If one desires to avoid injuries, cuts, burns, scalds, abrasions, to become bold and independent, and to suceed in competition, litigation, etc., he can use red stones.

Prayers : To ward off the evil indicated by Mars and to enjoy beneficial results, one should pray to the following Gods;
(1) If Mars is not connected with any planet, Lord 
 Muruga Subramanya.
(2) If connected with Sun, Veerabhadra; Surya namaskaram.
(3) If conjoined with Moon, Kali, Parvathi, Lalitha.
(4) _ If in any manner con nected with Mercury, 
 Narasimha Veeraraghava.
(5) Mars, Mercury and Venus, - Lakshmi Narasimha. (6) Mars, Mercury and Saturn;-Anjaneya. (7) Mars and Jupiter, - Satyanarayana.
(8) Mars and Venus-Maha Lakshmi.
(9) Mars and Saturn-Karuppannan, Maduraiveeran.
(10) Mars, Saturn, Rahu and Mercury Venkatachala- pathi
(11) Mars, Saturn and Rahu and Mercury-Ayyappan.
(12) Mars and Kethu-Lord Ganesh.
(13) Mars, Venus and Kethu-Vallabha Ganapati.
(14) Saturn, Mars, Venus and Kethu-Uchista Maha
Ganapathi and so on. 

Advice to Ladies : It is advantageous to wear
red stones, to put on red kukum, to use red clothes, etc., because from the time of birth till the end of life at every stage, it is Mars which has to protect them:
e.g.
(1) in infancy to have resistance against diseases, not to suffer from liver complaints, to put on weight, not to touch fire and suffer from burns, not to dip the hands in boiling milk, etc., and avoid ailments from boils.
(2) in youth, to avoid fire accidents which is common among girls when they light crackers or stand near stoves etc.,
(3) to have proper menstruation and not to suffer from pains in the breasts or belly.
(4) to be free from Mars dhosha and have a pleasing partner, to have the marriage celebrated in proper age without undue delay.
(5) not to suffer from abortions, bleeding, etc.,
(6) not to seek for a surgeon's aid but to have delivery without even instruments and no blood transfusion,
(7) to own lands,
(8) to own a house,
(9) to avoid accidents while going by car, scooter, etc.,
(10)  to have good understanding with brothers, and receive help from them as Mars is the chief governor for brothers. ( He will be the (mama) uncle to her children whose co-operation
 Contributes to peace and prosperity),
(11)  and above all to feel that she is respected by others and there are some people to carry out her instructions or wishes, not excluding her husband,
(12)  to have no fears, but to be courageous to maintain health and be ever active till the end of life

Therefore ladies should fast on Tuesdays, to pray for that deity are recommended above, use red
gems,
cloths; etc, which will give them mental
solace. They can be confident that there is no more evil ruled by Mars, etc.