MERCURY-THE UNCLE

Astronomy : Mercury-The dualist. Sun has
 Mercury as his closest neighbourhood even as the earth has the Moon; Mercury is bigger than Moon, but smaller than the earth. It is an average about 36 million miles away from the Sun. The distance varies between 29 million miles and 43 million miles. This is due to the fact that the orbit of Mercury is eccentric and much elongated. It revolves round the Sun in 88 days. Its diameter is nearly 3,200 miles. As the size of 
 Mercury is very small, and its mass is very little, its gravitational pull is naturally very weak.
There is no atmosphere around it. As Mercury is very near Sun, and the earth is also revolving round the Sun, there will be occasions when we can note this tiny planet, Mercury, transiting between the Sun and the earth, and it will be seen in the disc of the 
 Sun. It will appear as a black sharp disc. No ring of light will be visible which is an evidence that there is no atmosphere. If there were to be any atmosphere, the Suns's rays will pass through it and due to refraction it will from a ring around Mercury. As there is no atmosphere, no animal can exist.
Further, one half of Mercury will ever be very hot and it will be around 360 degrees centigade; and the other half will be very cold, much cooler than our Arctic regions during severe winter. Mercury takes as much time to revolve about itself once on its axis as it takes to go once round the Sun. Hence one half of Mercury will ever receive the rays of light and heat from the
Sun, whereas the other half will ever remain as night without having the chance to see the Sun at all Thus that half of Mercury facing the Sun is ever hot and the other half is ever cold. Even though Mercury is about 36 million miles away from the Sun, it is not easy to see Mercury with the naked eye as it will always be very near the Sun and the maximum longitudinal distance between the Sun and that will be 28 degrees. 
 Its speed is 95,000 miles per hour.

Mythology : In olden days, it was known as
 Thoth or Hermes. It is the son of the jupiter and Maia, the daughter of Atlas. He is said to be the friend of. 
 Apollo, probably because it is in the closest vicity to 
 Sun. Mercury is called a youth flying with wings at his heels, bearing a caduceus made of olive wood about which were entwined to serpents, the rod being surmounted with a par of wings. Indeed, this symbol represents speed, wisdom and duality. Mercury is the inventor of Lyre. He is the God of Commerce, or Gold 
 Eloquence. He always exhibits duality and lacks concentration. Though Mercury is the intellectual planet he is called a convertible and mutable planet and 
 Mercurians will generally possess  will-o-the-wisp character.
Hindus regard Mercury as representing God kesava, Narayana, Madhava etc. He represents 
 Dwaitham whereas Saturn denotes Advaitham, as 
 Mercury is for plurality while Saturn is for single one.
If one wants to propitiate God and if the person has the following combinations in his horoscope or if 
 Mercury has any connection with other planets by occupying their sign etc., he has to make judicious
. 384
choice and cultivate steady habits, concentrate and mediate properly, as Mercury denotes vacillation and lack of concentration.
Mercury --- Vishnu 
 Mercury and Sun Suryanarayana 
 Mercury and Moon Goddess Saraswathi 
 Mercury and Mars Narasimha, Veera 
 Raghava 
 Mercury and Jupiter Bhadrinarayana 
 Mercury and Venus Laxmi Narayana 
 Mercury and Saturn Anjaneya
Mercury, Saturn and Venus --- Krishna 
 Mercury,Venus and Mars --- Lakshmi Narasimha 
 Mercury,Mars and Saturn --- Venkateswara
Mercury,Moon and Saturn --- Renganatha
Mercury,Moon and Jupiter --- Rama (Sundarakandam)
Mercury,Jupiter and Saturn --- Geetha Parayanam
Thus the combination are to be taken for consideration and proper initation is necessary to have peace and prosperity.
Mercury rules ATHARVANA VEDA. He governs 
 Sarat Ruthu (October and November).

Astrology : Mercury is a variable, convertible, vacillating, feminine, effeminate, neutral and dualistic
planet. Just as a messenger has to carry out the orders of the others and act or their behalf so also Mercury will not act independently but expresses a nature in accordance with the nature of the planet with which he is conjoined or from which he receives aspects. He is called convertible, because he will prove to be a benefic to those in whose horoscopes Mercury is conjoined with or aspected by, benefics, whereas he becomes a malefic if he is in any way connected with evil planets. He rules Gemini and Virgo. Mercury gets exalted in Virgo and it is very weak and debililtated in 
 Pisces (Meena). His friends are Saturn and Venus, whereas his enemies are Sun, Moon, Mars, and 
 Jupiter.
Mercury shows the type of mentality one is endowed with, as he governs the reaction to one's sense and impressions. He rules over the solar plexus and the central nervous system. Being an intellectual planet, the Mercurian is highly intelligent, ingenious and analytical. He will grasp the subjects very quickly. 
 He gives the native retentive power and reproductive ability. Mercury with good aspects represents a subtle political brain and intellect, and excellent disputant, a logician with learning, and discretion. He makes one a researcher into mysteries and learning, sharp and witty, learning almost anything without a teacher and ambitious of being exquisite in every science. Mercury gives one the desire to make frequent short travels and see foreign places. He gives curiosity to master occult science also. The greatest drawback is that he does not allow one to be steady enough to complete a project. Therefore a Mercurian has to exercise his will and follow up any undertaking since, at each stage,
his attention will be drawn to other matters, with the results that nothing will ever get completed, unless and until he has exercised perseverance and steadiness. 
 Restlessness and variability are Mercury's characteristics. 
 Mercury, when afflicted by other planets, makes the person phrenetic. He will be a clever, cunning and mischievious anonymous petition-water. His tongue and pen will ever be against those whom he does not like. He will turn out to be a great gambler, the worst liar, a conceited, showy person, with vain-glorious statements extolling himself, or a prattler talking childish and artless fashion. Such an afflicted 
 Mercurian will be a cheat or be every busy carrying tales and uttering falsehood, mostly forgetting what he had already said. Further, he will neither stick onto one place nor to anyone opinion. He is termed "Lotamama" as he will side one party when he finds some advantage there and on the same day he will change his coat, join the opponent and advocate the latter's cause. He will pretend as though he knows everything whereas actually he is void of real learning. 
 He will be a talkative person, perverted, eccentric, unprincipled, inconstant and boastful. He will worry himself by being hasty. He will commit mistakes due to forgetfulness. He is man of moods

Mercury in dignity and receiving favourable aspects makes one versatile, good in mathematical calculations, engineering, accounts, correspondence, etc. He finds pleasure in variety. He has keen intuition and ability but the tendency to allow his attention to wander stands in the ways of his grand success, But if
he takes up things seriously, he will be "quick on the trigger" will work rapidly and accurately and come out successful in all his enterprises.
Once a person came to me and showed the horoscope of his only daughter and those of many boys of whom one was that of an intelligent and bright student with a view to find out which of them can be matched. He also added, that his daughter was not willing to marry the last mentioned student.
I said that he will get married whether she approved of it or not since both the charts not only agreed but the probability of getting married was also promised. I also added that the girl was subject to the 
 Mercurian moods. Even if she had said that she would not marry this person whom the astrologer had selected, if she were to be brought to my office I would make her give her consent, since the decision of 
 Mercurian could be changed easily. They could not stick on to one decision for ever.
The father informed the girl that the astrologer had selected only the chart of the boy whom she rejected.
The girl remarked that the prediction would fail as the boy was not rich enough and she had not inclination to marry one whose financial status was poor. 
 A few days later, the father took the girl and when 
 I described that the boy would come by a fortune and
amass wealth in business, she suddenly changed her decision and allowed her father to proceed with the
alliance. In a few weeks the marriage was celebrated. 
 A child also was born to her in the course of a year and a few years passed. The husband was not commanding sufficient finance to satisfy her. She ceased to lead the life of a wife. Being disappointed, she came to me and complained "What is this? My husband has not come by any fortune and I am dissatisfied, I have decided to divorce him." Calmly I told her that his lucky time was fast approaching and that it would synchronize with the birth of the second child. When I predicted events correct from the time of her marriage till the day of her consultation and assured her of the bright future, she changed her mind again, co-operated with her husband and led a happy and pleasant life with him. In a year, she had another child. To the pleasant surprise of the readers, I may mention he also came by a fortune, had satisfactory 
 Bank position and enjoyed peace and prosperity.
Mercury is a talkative planet. Hence persons ruled by Mercury will prove to be good salesmen, insurance agents, publicity officials, propagandists, orators eloquent and fast speakers with ready wit and they will be capable of learning many languages (the language depends on the other connections which 
 Mercury has). If Mercury is afflicted in one's chart, generally the native may commit a blunder during the previous Saturn period which will be talked by the general public during the Mercury period, bringing scandal and ill-repute to the native.
As Mercury governs the green colour, the choice during Mercury's period will be mostly green colour. 
 Mercury indicating the north direction shows that the
person, during Mercury's period, will have to move towards the north direction. If Mercury is a benefic, the native makes his fortune in the north and Mercury is a malefic, he will go to the north and suffer, Mercury's number is five. So during Mercury's periods, he will own a car whose numerology is 5; if he shifts his res idence, he will occupy ahouse whose numerological number is 5 (14;23;3241;50 and so on). 
 Even. when he engages a taxi, the number will be five. 
 Thus the planets will work. Good results or adverse ones depend on the beneficial or adverse aspect which Mercury receives. Mercury is the chief governor for education and uncle.

Physical features : Usually, he will be tall with
 Well-formed body. He will ever be stout. He will be of average height. The hands will be long and slender. 
 The hair will be dark and eyes expressive. His eyebrows will be curved with much hair. His voice will be thin and shrill; if afflicted he will stammer. He will walk very, quickly. Just like Martians, these persons will appear younger than their actual age.
Aspects with other planets : Mercury cannot from any major aspect according to Western system as it can never be more than 28 degrees from Sun. 
 Mercury can be both in advance in Sun and also behind Sun. If it rises before the Sun and is in advance, the native cannot be so intelligent as the one born with 
 Mercury rising after Sun; that is, the longitude of 
 Mercury will then be less than that of the Sun.
Anyhow, the conjunction of Sun and Mercury in
the same house will give to the native resourcefulness, shrewdness, adaptability and an adjusting
temperament. He will have the capacity to create pleasure in any surrounding or environment as well as under all circumstances.
There is difference of opinion in estimating the strength of Mercury if it is within the orb of 17 degrees. 
 Some say that Mercury loses its power, but others opine that it does not lose its strength. Many great people have Sun and Mercury close to each other, 
 Mercury being within 3 degrees from the Sun. Chief. 
 Engineers, Accountant Generals and Publicity officials have Sun and Mercury in close proximity and they have their promotion in Mercury period and Sun sub-period, showing that Sun and Mercury have produced very intelligent people and that they enjoyed very good prospects during their joint periods. Sun and Mercury will offer much literary success, inclination to study 
 Astrology, Astronomy, Engineering and Mathematics. 
 The person will be ambitious; intuitive, intelligent, quick- witted, thoughtful, studious, capable and aspiring. He will learn business tactics easily. The aspects which can be formed are conjunction vigintile, quindecile, parallel and within 2 degrees from semi-sextile.

Moon and Mercury : Good aspect of Moon and
 Mercury shows that the person will be quick in wit and reasonable. He will have fertile imagination and fluent expression. He can learn many languages easily, He will have original ideas. He will enjoy frequent changes and short journeys. He will never be pessimistic. As age advances, imagination and intuition will increase. 
 He will develop any art with some competence therein. 
 Moon gives success in correspondence advertising, conversation, etc. If the aspects are adverse, he will
always be worried, anxious and confused with sarcastic state of mind. Moon makes one indecisive speculative and sensitive, Poor memory, temporary upset through troubles in the nervous or digestive system by writing, signing of entering into a wrong contract, public criticism and loss in business are indicated. It is advisable for him not to stand surety to anybody. Dealings with close relatives will not be happy. Travels will bring in loss. Cautious action is necessary to avoid slander and fraud. It is not beneficial to change any house especially when their joint period operates.
(The results mentioned for each aspect will be experienced by the native whenever.he runs the joint periods of those planets according to Ududasa system and also whenever they form aspects by progression or by transit. The extent to which it will be enjoyed during progression is much greater than what one can have during transit.) 
 Mars, forming good aspects with Mercury shows that the native will be healthy, active and alert. He will never by lazy or lethargic. Quick turn-over of work, ability to organize original and novel ideas and shortcut methods are offered jointly by Mars and 
 Mercury. The native will ever be working as this aspect makes him lively, witty, humorous, ingenious, constructive, skilfull, practical and business-like. He will be showing keen interest in work will do it with zeal and exhibit his mental ability. He will have inclination towards instrumental music, mechanical or ground engineering (Mars mechanical, Mars 
 Bhoomikarka and Mercury engineering), carving, drawing, industry, factory
chemistry, medicine (if Sun also conjoins joined as 

 Venus stands for Vahana - vehicle, or when Mercury or Mars happens to be lord of 4). Mars and Mercury forming favourable aspects and occupying watery sign show that he may be attached to boiler engines, Navy etc. In Earthy sign it indicates mechanical engineering and ground engineering. In airy sign, it denotes that the person will be attached to Aircrafts, electricity department, or one who surveys, designs and prepares estimates. In Fiery sign, it indicates that he be connected with industry, factory etc. Mars forming evil aspect with Mercury gives the subject great mental activity and intellectual power. He will be impulsive and rash. He will get irritated and will order and may be violent. If Mercury or Mars has any connection with the significator of partner in life, there will be disharmony and they will manhandle each other. Colic pains, piles, fissure etc, are also indicated by these two planets.
 Disputes, litigation, loss through theft, risky ventures, careless correspondence, hasty decision leading to public scandal and criticism are threatened by bad aspects. While good aspects gives the person the capacity to make his fortune in quick buying and selling, by being a broker or a jobber, bad aspects will give him courage and fool-hardiness to speculate and lose. 
 He will lose through fraud, cheating and forgery or he himself will commit such crimes. If either of the two planets happens to be lord of 6 or 12, he will be cheated. If either is the lord of the ascendant, he himself will be a criminal.

Good aspect between Mercury and Jupiter gives the native clear thinking, correct forethought and good
judgement. He will be prudent and wise. He will posses a broad and philosophical mind. He will be versatile, constructive, creative, hopeful, optimistic, jovial and contented. His disposition will be humane; he will be honest, law-abiding, God-fearing, religious- minded and liberal.He will be fond of making religious and professional trips. He will have inspirational ideas. 
 He will be a good journalist, correspondent, copyist, writer, cashier, auditor, inspector etc. (If a person expects such a service, he will enter into any of these when he runs their joint periods or, it may be one planet's sub-period and the other planers sub sub- period. When later he enjoys the dasa of either, he can be sure of his promotion and prosperity). If Mars also has any connection, one can become the Agent of a Bank, Treasury Collector, Revenue officer etc. He will be a good astrologer, always predicting good results and offering mental solace to the depressed. 
 Bad' aspects between Jupiter and Mercury show difficulties, obstacles, misfortune, bad investments, verbal agreements which will not be fulfilled, signing of contractors bringing loss, correspondence leading to litigation and troubles quarrel with the preceptor, trouble in the assessment and payment of taxes, false reports, falsification of accounts, scandal, ill-repute, loss or accident during travel etc. The health of the person will suffer due to excesses, frequent feast, vitamin B deficiency, dyspepsia, lack of enzymes etc.
He may get into editing, publishing, journalism, religion, law, bank, insurance, investment, speculation, literature, commerce, accounts, administrative department in engineering, treasury, income-tax, sales- tax etc., and earn his livelihood. He should not overtrade.

Venus and Mercury forming good aspects indicate that the native will be very cheerful and mirthful. (Mercury and Venus can never be as far away as other planets from the Sun. Mercury can be 28 degrees away from Sun and Venus 48 degrees. There will be occasions when Mercury may be on one side of the

 Sun and Venus on the other side so that at one time they can be only 76 degrees apart. Therefore the aspects that can be formed are: vigintile, quindecile, semi-sextile, semi-quintile, semi-square, sextile quntile, conjunction and parallel. Excepting semi- square, all aspects are considered to be favodrable, premising that they will offer desirable results. The astrologer has to attach greater importance to the houses they own.) The mind of the subject with good aspect will be hopeful, intuitive, good-tempered, sociable, friendly, amiable and merry. He will be fond of recreation, of pleasure in fine arts and refinement.
 The native will hate dispute and disharmony. 
 Financially, this aspect promises gain of property and shares in flourishing companies. Happy married life with a beautiful and intelligent wife is also indicated. 
 He will enjoy both social and financial success.,As 

 Mercury is for plurality and Venus indicates friendship with the opposite sex, if either of them occupy or own 2nd, 7th or the 11 th house, often this aspect denotes that the person will have two attachments at least and many partners in business. The aspect is essential for making money through mental accomplishments, through writing comedies (Saturn for tragedies), speaking on the club and society, designing and laying out, pleasant journeys, arranging for picnic parties, travel agencies, clerks, cinema, drama advertisers, commerce, shipping, transport (Watery sign occupied
by them indicates shipping; airy sign shows air travel, dealing in antiques and curios. Saturn also should lend its assistance.) Further they indicate that he will make money through luxuries, beautiful or scented articles, painting, or through music, radio, transistor, gramoaphone, etc, jewellery, dress-making, confectionary, etc. He may gain through children, wife and ladies. Bad aspects show that he cannot become famous and there will be always some obstacle or other, not allowing the person to master any subject and also to earn satisfactorily during the joint periods of the two planets.
Saturn forming good aspects with Mercury.
 Mercury offers the native steadiness, carefulness, good judgement, precision, methodical approach to any subject, good memory, etc. He will be contemplative, practical and studious. He will not be vacillating but will take decision and pursue any subject till he attains competence. He will have the inclination to study geology, mineralogy, mathematics, banking, physics, dynamics statistics; and do research, especially ween it is in the 9th house. The subject will have great pleasure in traveling, lecturing and publishing journals. 
 This aspect gives strong will, perseverance, patience, persistence and determination to fulfill his desire. The native will have the aspiration to lead in politics. He may hold jobs in corporation, government and such companies where security of services is assured. He will thrive in such a business where caution, prudence and good judgement are required, Jupiter, lending its assistance
by its good aspect, indicates that he can teach these subjects in the school. If the aspect between Saturn and Mercury is evil, all his efforts will be delayed; he may be disappointed and depressed. It may cause disharmony and dispute, and lead to debts and disease. His education will be poor, memory poor, finance poor, health poor and retentive power absolutely absent. If he were to run their joint periods during school days, he will be spotted as the dullest student in the class.