Moon-The Mother
In astrology, Moon and Sun are generally mentioned planets although neither is a planet in the strict dictionary sense.

Astronomy : Moon is the planet nearest to the earth. It is the only planet in the Solar system revolving round and round the earth. Sun is said to be generator of power whereas Moon is considered as the conductor of power lent by Sun. Only one-half moon receives light from Sun and this portion alone gets illuminated at any one time. Moon shines only by the reflected light of the Sun.
The rays of the Sun reflected by the Moon dispel the darkness of the night on earth just in the same manner as light reflected from a mirror placed in the 
 Sun removes the darkness inside the house.
Therefore the nature of isthe same as that of Sunlight but it is not self-luminous. The distance between the Earth and Moon is approximately 2,38,000 miles. It moves round the earth which revolves round the Sun.
Suppose a child holds the hand of its mother, the ¢ child goes around her rapidly. But the mother with child makes a big round, around a lighthouse. The child will be on some occasions in between the mother and the lighthouse. On some occasion, the mother will be between the child and lighthouse. When the child is in the line joining the mother and the lighthouse, the mother cannot see the lighthouse. In this manner, the solar eclipse is caused. But if the mother is in between the child and the lighthouse in the same joining line the mother prevents the light from falling on the child. 
 That is, the earth is in between Moon and Sun and 
 Moon does not perceive light from the Sun. Thus Lunar eclipse is caused. Eclipses are formed in this mariner, whenever all the three are in one line.
. The Moon is small in size. The diameter of the 
 Earth is approximately 7,800 miles whereas that of the Moon is only 2,200 miles. No water is said to be found in the Moon. But at the time of the Full Moon we notice the tides rise even as high as 40 feet. Actually the ebb and tide of the oceans are caused by the influence of Moon on earth.

Mythology : Moon is considered to be the Virgin
 Mary of the Roman Catholics and nourishing mother of the heavens. She is the Luna(Diana). She is the queen of the night. Diana is the twin sister of Apollo. 
 She is the Goddess and also a huntress. She governs chastity as well as fertility. So is the daughter of Leo and Zeus and she is called by Artemis by Greeks. 
 That is why, it is said, that the Sun gives the spirit and life to all the planets and the Moon rules over the lives of the beings on earth Sun represents individuality whereas Moon shows one's personality. Moon also represents the mother of a person born by night. Sun is masculine and Moon is feminine. Hence the person born under the rulership of Moon becomes timid, vacillating, receptive and convertible. Sun is a fiery planet whereas Moon is a watery one; hence Moon is a fruitful planet.
Moon transits very quickly through all the twelve signs of the Zodiac in 27 days, 7 hours and 48 minutes. 
 It is considered to govern our daily happenings, making a person feel jubilant when it transits a favourable sign and depressing the same person when it passes in an unfavourable sign. Hence it is necessary to know about the Moon.

. Astrology - The Moon is a nocturnal, cold, changeable moist, receptive and feminine planet. The fourth sign of the Zodiac called Katakam or Cancer is ruled by Moon. This sign is just prior to the sign Leo owned by Sun. In Hindu Mythology, it is said that Moon loves Rohini mostActually Moon gets exalted in Taurus or Rishaba in which Rohini star is contained.
Moon moves daily around 13 degrees on an average and whenever it passes the sign Taurus, it is very strong. It gets very weak and debilitated when it transits in the sign Scorpio or Vrischika.
Moon ¢ governs over the impregnation, * conception, birth of child, the animal instinct the union and the embryo. It also rules the infant stage of a person and it has a powerful influence on the lives. Afflicted 
 Moon at the time of birth causes ailment frequently and does not allow one to have proper growth. Stomach will be upset and frequent vomiting reduces vitality.
The effect of the Moon depends on the relative disposition of other planets the aspect which Moon receives; the sign which it occupies etc., at the time of one's birth.
Moon is a cold planet. Afflicted Moon often causes cold and fever. Its characteristics is changeability. Hence its influence is often unsettling. 
 If one is in service his desire will be to have frequent changes. He will not continue live in the same premises. Under some pretext or other, their will be a change of residence, frequently. Even in his room, he will ever be arranging and rearranging his books. He
will change the position of furniture, the curtain cloth, table etc. Unless Saturn forms favourable aspect, he cannot be steady. Does not the Moon appear different on different days. One day it appears as the full Moon. 
 In a week's time it is only half; a week later it is not to be seen. Again daily it waxes and moves fast appearing every night in the midst of different constellations. Thus people born, with Moon as their ruling planet will ever be unsettled, wavering and vascilating.
Moon representing the mother and owning the fourth house indicates that the person will love his country and his home.

Moon is called Mathi; the mind. Mercury governs intelligence. Good aspects between Moon and Mercury give the native fertile imagination, deep feelings, emotion etc. Adverse aspects offer indecision, lack of mental balance, a desire to lie and spread false rumours and suffering from over-anxiety.
Moon, receiving good aspect from Venus, develops in the native a taste for music, art, painting, scented, keen imagination and love for all pleasurable pursuits. Evil aspects potend inconstancy with lady friends, female relatives etc. Excesses cause digestive troubles.
Moon and Mars, when favourably disposed, offer extreme liberality and frank nature. One will be bold and inclined to make frequent journeys which will prove to be profitable. Adverse aspects indicate that the person will be impulsive, rash and reckless and will develop strong attractions to the opposite sex causing
ill health and bringing ill reputation. These two planets govern the monthly course of the ladies. Good aspects are fruitful. But evil aspects case much of pain and other troubles connected with menstruation. Jupiter and Moon in favourable aspects give magnanimous ideas, hopeful disposition, good imagination and optimism. But if the aspects are bad, the native will be reckless and extravagant.
Saturn with its beneficial rays to Moon makes one,patient, persistent, steady, cautious and ever inclined to hoard money. The native will be able to concentrate. Unfavourable aspects depress him and make him funky; there will be fear complex, inferiority complex and pessimism. He cannot concentrate, mediate etc. Uranus and Moon will develop in the native a taste for hypnotism, mesmerism, occultism, astrology etc, and will make him independent. Adverse aspects potend eccentrcity. He will be perverted and very hasty. Neptune and Moon will make one proficient in fine arts, in instrumental music, occultism spiritualism etc. Adverse aspects threaten him with neurasthenic complaints, hysteria, insanity, incoherence in thought and speech, and create in him immoral and perverse sexual desire. Thus Moon influences the brain. It indicates our reaction for every result we have for the efforts we make. As moon governs water, the native will have the desire to cross the sea, make long journeys etc.
Moon also govern the stomach and the breasts of ladies. Good digestion or otherwise, beauty of the breasts and her ability to feed her own child with breast milk or not, depend on the aspects, which Moon
receives. Mercury and Sun forming good aspect give proper digestion and assimilation. Saturn aspecting 
 Moon gives very small breasts. Jupiter makes them very big. Venus adds beauty to them. Mars keep them strong and attractive. 
 Sun indicates the native's public life, holding high position with authority and power. But Moon denotes family life, the home and personal and private affairs. 
 It also shows the multitude and the masses.
Moon is considered to govern 'AP' or water power. It denotes wells, ponds, tanks, rivers, fresh water, bays, ocean etc. Hence it is concerned with liquids, aquatic animals, and objects found under water, like pearls.

Parts of the Body : governed by Moon are, Left eye of male and the right eye of a female, the breasts, stomach, esophagus, uterus, ovaries, synovial fluid, lymphatic vessels, sympathetic nerves, bladder etc.

Diseases : given by Moon are: Eye diseases.
 Lunacy, Paralysis, Hysteria, Epilepsy, Dropsy, Bery- 
 Bery. Myxodema, cold, cough, colic pains, worms, intestinal, defects and diseases, catamenical disorders, Tumours, Peritonitis, Uremia, Throat troubles. Asthma, Eosonophilia, Bronchitis, varicose veins, complications due to excess of drinks, 
 Hydrocele, Dyspepsia, Dysentry, Sprue, nervous debility, gastric catarrh, cancer, typhoid etc.

Profession : Being a watery planet, the native may be employed in shipping department, Navy, water analysist or water- supply department. He may deal in
salt, fish, corals, pearls, perfumes, flowers, liquids, 
 Kerosene, Petrol, Milk, boilers etc. Farmers, vegetable and fruit growers, and suppliers or dealers in such commodities are governed by Moon Nurses, Cooks, 
 Stall, Managers, Launderers are also ruled by Moon. 
 Dealing in various articles governed by Moon mentioned below may also by the occupation of the people born under the rulership of Moon.
One may be a Mechanical Engineer in Water- works, or if Moon were to be in a movable or common sign, he will be a captain in the steamer or ship. If one has Moon and Mars forming good aspects and either is in Scorpio, he will deal with boilers. Venus also forming an aspect denotes the dealer in parboiled rice. Venus represents food. Aspect from Venus to 
 Moon alone shows that the native will be a dealer in milk products. If Saturn also aspects he may deal in such of those materials found at the bottom of the sea as conch-shells. Mars Moon and sun indicate dealings in salt. Mars, Moon and Venus govern aerated waters. 
 Moon, Sun and Venus indicate nursing. Jupiter also connected with them indicates midwifery. Jupiter, 
 Mercury and Moon denote novel writings; also those who inspect accounts, internal auditors etc. Moon in the third house connected with Lord of profession indicates good salesmen, street hawkers etc. Thus the modification of other planets will help in selecting one of the many indications of Moon.

Products: Oranges, melons; cucumber, palm, plaintains, poppy, fruits, vegetable, ghee, curd, milk, cow, sugar and sugarcane, saffron, betel leaves, maize, nickel, silver, ever-silver, camphor, alum, horses, fish, aquatic animals, cooked food.

Political : The condition of the mass of people, the ladies and their societies, social functions, marriage, navigation shipping, River projects, Dam construction, bridges, swimming pool, agriculture, horticulture, regulations for expansion improvement and uplift.

Economic : Improvement of shipping yards, ports, increased shipping facilities, fishery, industry, catering departments, breweries, drinks, dance music, cinema, trade; commerce, food materials, laundries, water supply, dairy farms, milk supply.

Places : Indicated by Moon in india (as per
 Brihat-Samhita) Mountains, fortresses, Kosala, 
 Charukachche, Ocean, Tocharrians, Vanavasi, 
 Tangana, Hala and Strirajya.

Handwriting : As Moon is ever changing, the native will write in different ways and shapes the same words and letters. The native will commit spelling mistakes even when he writes simple words, he may wrote a few words starting to the right and a few upright.
 If he writes a letter when he is in a happy mood, he draws wavy lines below his signature. An unsteady handwriting.

Animals and Birds : Horse, cat, dog, mouse, water-bird, duck, goose, crab, tortoise, owl, oyster etc.

Plants and Herbs : Melon white poppy, cucumber palm, mushrooms, algae, winter green, pumpkin, mercury, sugarcane, cabbage, cauliflower, lettuce.

Time: Moon controls Varsha Ruthu i.e. August and September.

Day : Monday is ruled by Moon. People born under the rulership of Moon, will have grand success of Tuesdays, pro-motion on Fridays and profit on
 Wednesdays, Saturdays are not favourable. Other days are moderate.

Number : 2 and 7 are the numbers of Moon. Nine brings in fortune. Six is for reputation and popularity. 5 shows happy family life with good wife and gains without pains. Avoid number 8. It is unfortunate.’

Colour : White: some are of opinion that sea- green colour is indicated by Moon.

Gems : Pushparagam-Diamond-All white stones.