NEPTUNE
Neptune is the another giant planet. It is far away in the space. It is beyond Uranus and therefore one cannot see it without the aid of powerful telescope. On an average it is 2,793 million miles from the Sun and its diameter is about 27,600 miles..It weighs about 17 times the earth. It is discovered by Mr.Galle and Challis. Its existence is known from 1846. It revolves round the Zodiac in about 1461/2 years. As Neptune has not yet made one round after fixing its position in its orbit in 1846, the nature of Neptune, its influence on the animate and inanimate objects, and the modification while it transits in each sign are not fixed yet, on observation. But regular and systematic observation of the general nature of Neptune has been in a way assessed.
Neptune is the octave of Mercury whereas 
 Uranus is that of Venus. Uranus acts on the love-nature whereas Neptune works on the spiritual side. Mercury governs the brains, improves the intellect of the people and lifts them above animals and makes then men; but Neptune improves the spirituality and makes them divine.
As, in the Zodiac, there are only twelve houses and they had been allotted to the seven planets, prior, to the discovery of Uranus and Neptune, actually there is no separate house for them, but considering its nature. Neptune is said to govern the sign Pisces (Meena), as Greeks's consider Neptune as The Poseidon king of the sea.
Neptune offers psychic-ability, feelings, inspiration and emotion. It gives the power to foresee; it increases one's passion. One may practice and try to have clairvoyance or crystal-gazing, hypnotism, mesmerism, throught-reading or spiritual development, or to control devils or act as a medium with the spirit. It gives imagination and hence it is beneficial to poets, musicians, artists, painters etc. 
 Neptune makes one dreamy, imaginative or learn black-magic or be religious, paradoxical impressionable or makes one an extreme in love affairs, secret atachements, stealthily having pleasure will strange characters. It is difficult to understand the people who are governed by Neptune.
If Neptune is afflicted one will not be steady; always fond of changes; not reliable; confused, cynical and treacherous. They will think of evil alone, conspire and try to do harm to others. They may even commit murder by giving over-dose of drug or poison or narcotics or opium.

Part of the body : Neptune governs the nervous system, retina, the optic nerves, cerebro-spinal fluid etc.

Diseases : Eye trouble, derangement of brains, coma, catalepsy, trance, mental disturbances, insanity, dropsy, narcotic-poisoning, leprosy, allergy, neurasthenia etc.

Profession : Astrologer, magician, one who has clairaudience, who can gain by crystal-gazing, philosophy, spiritual teacher, poet, musician,
instrumental stringed music, drama, cinema, art, paint, druggist, dealers in narcotics, tobacco, opium, gas plants, aviation, navigation, shipping, shipyard, fisheries, prohibition, drinks, liquor, service in hospitals, asylums, prisons, service in tea estate, petrol mines, oils or dealing in chloroform, ether, artificial silk, beverages.

Places : Neptune governs aviation, navigation,
 Port-Trust,Customs, Excise, Fisheries, Liquor, 
 Nacrotic drugs, Hospitals, Prisons, Asylums, Secret organisations, Refugee camps, Famine, centers, 
 Communism.

Products : It also governs Tea, nuxvomica, narcotic drugs, oils, petrol, chloroform, opium, ether, cocaine, sleeping agents, rayon, art silk nylon, geranium, strontium etc.

Lucky colour : Mauve or Lavender.
 Lucky number : 7,16,25,34 and so on. 
 Lucky day : Monday-Thursday.
Handwriting : Unsteady curves; curved lines; nebulous: shaky.
(As Uranus and Neptune do not rule any dasa, it is not proposed to deal with them elaborately but yet a little knowledge will serve us the purpose; hence without taking up much space which can be ill afforded the results of Neptune in each sign and in each house will be briefly stated below).

Aries : Intensifies the feelings and emotions, religious enthusiasms, energetic and
enterprising, mystical experiences and beliefs, fond of traveling sympathetic and charitable benevolent disposition. If afflicted will not hesitate to murder the enemies of the society by shooting, throwing bombs, assasinating, etc., very bold to kidnap. Such people will be at least 90 years old, by now. Probably, 
 Ravana might have had Neptune in Aries.

Taurus : Increase in one's income, savings and business. Increases the aesthetic taste, kindly, affectionate, enjoys nature's beauty, fond of company, develops taste in music, especially instrumental ones.
 Good humour. Acquries landed property, buildings and gains much by salt. Good aspects to Neptune offers such beneficial results. But if afflicted, enemies, dis- apoinment in married life, bubble company, cheating and tragedy.

Gemini : Extraordinary intelligence, intuition, farsightedness, unusually shrewd. Good speaker,
 Convincing, arguments, correct reasoning, logic, develops, astrology, introspection, inspiration, ingenuity, fond of traveling a good mechanic or a mathematician. If afflicted, vascilation, indecisive, restless, cunning, fraud, cheat. People between 53 and 60 years of age, now will be having Neptune in Gemini.

Cancer : Kind, sympathetic, affectionate, intuitive, helps the sufferers, develops spiritual side, mediumship and psychical faculty, benefits through mother, fond of happy domestic environments, changes house very often. If afflicted entertains the fear of haunted house.

Leo : Active sense and powerful feelings, warm affections, likes company, loves pleasure, fond of
society and the company of sportsman, magnanimous and benevolent, success in educational pursuits, music, painting, cinema, opera, drama, poetry. If afflicted disapoinment in love affairs and in the offspring, shy, delicate and cowardly, fickle-minded, unreliable.

Virgo: Very intelligent, intuition and inspiration, prophetic tendency, devotional and spiritual, remarkable success as a marine engineer, clerk, nurse, mathematician, accounts and auditing, medicine, public health. If afflicted, one will imagine that there is no disease left in this world with which he is not suffering. They should not practice mediumship, most emotional.

Libra : Develops spiritual side, increases the talent in music, painting, engraving, dance, poetry.
 Keeps the company of partner and enjoys life. Fertile imagination, charming, attracted by opposite sex. If afflicted, never law-abiding but ever illegitimate relationship.
The partner will swindle the native, wife or husband will be unreliable.

Scorpio : Feelings and emotions will be in the extreme. Gives energy and enthusiasm. Mind scientifically bent. Research in occult science. Desire to deliver the secrets of nature. Luxurious life. Given to drinks. Gain by partnership, insurance, inheritance, and will. Practical application of occult science. If afflicted, death by drowning, accident, drugs etc.

Sagittarius: Real devotion, inspiration, religious fervour. Predictive dreams, corrects visions, long
travel, satisfactory pleasure, psychical experiences. If afflicted, bad dreams, dangerous visions, restlessness, danger, travel, and failure in politics.

Capricorn : Scheming brain, contemplative mind, serious nature, good for concentration, big business, a good detective, can solve intricate problems, research, occult and psychic lines, gains through art and music.

Aquarius: Intuitive, perceptive, fond of natural scenery, hopeful dispositon, dreamers, idealists, social success, mental development humane, sympathetic.
 Good aspect promises fortune through friends whereas bad aspect brings loss, discredit, disgrace, difficulty and disapoinment.

Pisces : Good thinker, fertile imagination, serious outlook, inspirational faculty, mediumistic qualities, investigating the occult etc. If afflicted, secret enemies, fraud, deception suffering through spirits, danger of imprisonment and difficulties by drinking or over-drugging. Good aspects show gain by shipping etc.

First House : Mediumistic, dreams, trance, romance, emotion good inspiration, farsightedness, psychic powers, clairvoyance, good taste in arts, gain by shipping or liquids.

Second House : Gain through liquids, commodities needed by 'common people, mystic and occult matters. Good aspects shown financial success.
 If afflicted, never do business. It will be a bubble company. Loss through frauds and schemes. Good asp ects show service in hospitals, asylums,
sanatorium, navigation, swimming pools, secret societies etc.

Third House : Inspirational writing and correspondence, high ideals, difficulties with relatives, many short journeys. If afflicted danger through others plot and cheating.

Fourth House : Spiritual atmosphere in domestic life, change of residence and voyage.

Fifth House : A good swimmer, emotional and affectionate, sensuous pleasures, gains by investing in oil, company shares or shipping etc.

Sixth House : Psychic latent, danger through spirits, loss through servants, chronic and incurable diseases, wasting sickness. Avoid narcotics, opium etc. Exercise care in food and clothing. Not favourable for poultry and animal breeding. Better avoid tobacco, and liquor also. e

Seventh House : If afflicted, unreliable or diseased marriage partner; there may be fraud, deception, domestic trouble, scandal, jealousy, some confusion, two engagements or marriages.

Eighth House : Gain through Wife, strange psychical and dream experiences. Danger of drowning or through poison, nightmares, trance.

Ninth House : Cultivate spiritual faculty, clairvoyance, philosophy, make long journeys, danger of litigation with the relatives of wife.

Tenth House : Ambitious, inspirational, leadership, reputation, honour. Good in art and
science, cultivate the spiritual side. Gains through inheritance, liquids, hospitals secret societies, sea and also by music, fish, writing etc.

Eleventh House : Realises hopes; good friends. Favourable for poets, musicians, night-club, swimmers, seamen, fishermen.

 Twelfth House: Research in science or occult detective work, or service in big institutions or hospitals, asylums, prison etc. If afflicted, fraud, scandal, sorrow, secret enemies, cheating.