Astronomy : Our ancients knew only the seven planets Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and
 Saturn. Saturn is called "Sanaischara" as it moves along the Zodiac leisurely and more slowly than the other planets. It is the outermost of the planets know to them. (However, Uranus, Neptune, etc., which have been discovered recently are farther away from the Sun and the Earth and they move much more slowly then Saturn.) Saturn is visible to the unaided eye.
Saturn is surrounded by a system of three concentric rings. These rings are separate and there is only black empty space in between any two rings. Saturn appears like a blue ball with 3 yellow rings.
Saturn is 886 million miles away from the Sun. 
 It is smaller than Jupiter and its diameter is around 75,000 miles. It has nine Moons. Saturn is about 700 times in volume when compared with earth. But in weight, it is less than 100 times than earth.
Saturn takes nearly 291/2 years to go round the 
 Sun. Hence, on an average, Saturn passes through each sign for a period of above 21/2 years.

Mythology : Saturn is called 'Yama' Why? It is the chief governor for 'Longevity.' It has carry out the duty of God Siva or Rudhra. Saturn is a cold Icy planet.
 That is why, probably, it is said that "Icyhands are laid on one" meaning that one is dead.
Saturn is the father of the two significators of evil 
 Gulika and Mandhi. Saturn is also called Neelan and
Mandhan. Saturn is said to be 'Lame'. The story is said that when indrajit was about to be born, Saturn stretched its leg, from the 11th house to the 12th so that Saturn can fill the child with pride and bring about a great fall eventually. Ravana tried to keep all planets in the 11th house at the time of the birth of his son, Indrajit. Why? Planets in 11 will invariably do good to the person concerned. Of the twelve 
 Bhavas, the eleventh alone is the most auspicious for the fulfillment of one's desire and the realisation of one's ambition. But the Devas, realising the consequences, appealed to Saturn who encouraged the Devas by saying that he alone can sanction what they want, with least effort. Saturn in 11 is very good. 
 Saturn is 12 is very very bad. So Saturn stretched its leg to the 12th Bhava. When Ravana was informed that a son was born, he wanted to confirm whether all planets were occupying the 11th house. To his distress, Saturn was found stretching its leg to the 12th house. Ravana is noted for his rash and foolhardly actions. Suddenly he cut off the leg of 
 Saturn. Hence Saturn is called 'Lame'. By that one is to understand that Saturnians are slow.
Saturn is the son of Sun. Look at their qualities and characteristics. Both are diametrically opposed to each other. Consider Moon also. Saturn never agrees with Moon. This is why perhaps Saturn is allotted Capricorn and Aquarius, the signs just opposite to those of the luminaries.
According to Westerners Saturn is the son of 
 Uranus. He married Rhea. When he understood that children born to him would govern the world, he destroyed them. But Jupiter is for survival. So when
Jupiter was born, the mother gave him some hard stuff wrapped in cloth which Saturn did away withy. But 
 Jupiter escaped.
God always pays every one in the same coin. 
 Saturn dethroned Uranus.'In turn, Jupiter deprived 
 Saturn and taught the law of nature.
There are many such stories.
A few others say that Saturn represents 'Brahma'. 
 But I disagree considering the general role that Saturn plays in human lives. To me, the conception of Saturn representing Lord Siva-Rudhra is more appealing. 
 Sun may be called the 'Brahma'. So also the Jupiter. 
 But Saturn has the characteristics of Siva doing the duty of Siva. That is why Navagrahas are installed in 
 Siva temple; at least, Saturn is called Neelan and Siva is called Neelakantan.
Saturn rules Sasira Ruthu-February and March the cold months of the year.

Astrology; Saturn is a barren, binding, cold, constant; dry, defensive, hard, nervous and secretive planet.
It governs the houses Capricorn and Aquarius. 
 The moolatrikona house or the day house is Aquarius and the night house is Capricorn.
Though Saturn is the son of Sun, it rules the sign opposite to that of the Sun. Saturn's exalted sign is 
 Thula or Libra where Sun gets debilitated. Saturn's debilitated sign is Aries which is the exaltation sign of 
 Sun.
Leo owned by Sun and Cancer owned by Moon are the houses of fall for Saturn.
Saturn is said to occupy friend's quarters in, 
 Mithuna (Gemini) or Kanni (Virgo) ruled by Mercury and Rishaba (Venus) and Thulam (Libra) ruled by 
 Venus and is considered to be in enemy's camp while occupying other houses.
Saturn is considered to be very favourable for people born in the signs owned by Venus, whereas 
 Saturn is evil to those born in the signs governed by 
 Mercury.
Saturn, according to Uttara Kalamrita, proves to be beneficial when it is in its own sign or when it occupies the signs of Jupiter or when it is exalted.
But, one peculiarity has to be carefully remembered. If Saturn by lordship, is a benefic then it should not be strong by being in Swakshethra, exalted or Vargothama to produce favourable results during Venus sub period. Kalidas is of opinion that strong Raja Yoga Saturn in Venus period will make one beg aims in the street even if the person is born a King or a Kubera.
According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, Saturn ruling the constellations Pushya, Anuradha and 
 Uthrapadhra, will modify the results of planets in any of the three stars so much that, what Saturn has to offer to the native by its lordship and occupation, is given by the planet in its star(s).
Saturn will cause delay. It can deny. It will disappoint Disharmony, dispute, difficulty,
despondency, dejection and differences are the outcome of an evil Saturn. Plodding, persevering, patiently working, prudence, frugality, economy, saving, endurance, industry, thrift, power to keep secrets, stability, self-control, sense of duty,etc., are attributed to a beneficial Saturn.
Lazy, lethargic, idle persons are born under the influence of malefic Saturn.
Never will they have the mind to work. It they begin to do anything, some impediment, obstacle or hindrance dissuades or discourages them. They become diffident; there is the fear whether it would be possible to come out successful. So they are anxious; they suspect others, Saturn causes distrust. 
 Saturnians will always miss the bus. They are mostly late to start, to do, to receive the benefit etc. They may try to speak on the platform; they may prepare well; but they will remember the points only after they resume their seats. Students under the influence of 
 Saturn cannot recollect all points; when they come out of the examination hall, they will recollect everything. A 
 Saturnian may visit a friend's house for a particular work. On reaching the place, he will spend the time on other things. There will be some hindrance and he will find it difficult to attend to his work. Saturn is a powerful planet either as a malefic or as a benefic. Let us see what a benefic Saturn has done. One student, while consulting me said "Sir, I am in love with girl. I think, from the way in which she conducts herself she is also in love with me. Daily, in the morning she comes by a bus and I wait in the bus stand till that bus comes, I jump into it Believe me or not, everyday, I find at
least one friend of my father sitting by her side and offer a seat next to him or away from her. In the evening, I experience similar obstacles. On important days, the phone gets out of order.

Astrologers say that I am running Saturn's period; there is always some difficulty or the other in the way of fulfillment of my wishes. What do you say? The reply was this: 'That you run Saturn's period is correct. But
 Saturn is a benefic to you. The girl whom you love is one of the twins. Thank this Saturn! Do you know, why? 
 You would have mistaken the other twin and behaved in a distasteful manner. Consider your position and that of her sister whom you love. Luckily, old persons representing Saturn intervening save you from such dirty situation. Saturn will delay. Be cautious and careful." This is how beneficial Saturn saves. See how a malefic Saturn wrecks. I go to my friend's house to borrow money when I press the calling bell to whom I owe money opens the door and says in a loud voice "How many times am I to demand money from you." When do you propose to make the payment?" The house owner whom I wanted to approach asks what the matter is. Readers will be knowing who would have answered this question. 
 The fellow, who opened the door narrates the story and ends by saying that I am a defaulter for many years. 
 Now, who is Saturn. The fellow who opened the door.

Thus people born on Saturdays, or in Capricorn or Aquarius as Ascendants or in the constellations
 Pushya or Anuradha or Uthrapathra will take the role of Saturn and do good or evil depending. upon the favourable or unfavourable position of Saturn during its period.
Saturn is the chief governor for longevity occupying the house of longevity, i.e., the8th house gives a long span of life to the native. The off-quoted sloka "Karaka Bhava Nasaya" does not apply to
 Saturn.
Jupiter is the chief governor for production and expansion. Hence as Jupiter produces, Saturn destroys to maintain equilibrium.
People born under the influence of Saturn do not relish hot stuff. They desire to have cold dishes preferably preserved in frigidaire, Saturn being a cold planet. They prefer old and preserved food stuff. 
 Saturn also denotes that they will like astringent and sour taste.
Saturn, when benefic, makes a person true, reliable honest, sincere, faithful, chaste, etc. Also, it aids for concentration, meditation, prayers etc.
Whereas a Jupiterian is a vedantist, Purohit, preacher (whether he practises or not), a Saturnian is one who practices, does not preach much, grows beard, observes silence (mounam), keeps up penance, avoids feasts, but now and then periodically fasts, prefers seclusion, shuns society, etc. Jupiter is for expansion, improvement for opening many branches, for undertaking varieties of works spending more than what he should, simply to maintain false prestige. But, Saturn never cares for other's opinion, consolidates, concentrates and is economical and calculating. The colour of Saturn is blue. When one is filled with sorrow or depressed, downcast, down on
ones luck, sullen, low-spirited or crestfallen, never use blue colour, for screen, for table cloth, for wall painting or blue-sapphire in the ring or ornament. 
 Use red symbolising the character of Mars when he will gather courage, be active, will never lament nor feel dejected. Whenever a person runs the evil period of 
 Saturn, some friends may suggest to use "Blue" colour. The person also will have the mind to purchase-a "Blue". Why? That which appeals to one at a particular period is governed by the planet ruling that period. When one runs Saturn's period, blue colour will attract. Saturn is called a 'Tempter'. So one should not fall a victim. But, instead use red; or use pure gold. The evil of Saturn can be warded off by the powerful Mars or Jupiter. If in the horoscope, Mars is a benefic and it aspects Saturn, use red. If benefic 
 Jupiter mitigates the affliction of Saturn, use pure gold.
Saturn being a depressor, people having Moon and Mercury afflicted by Saturn will have the inferiority complex and the fear complex. Use ‘red in such conditions.
Stupidity, dullness, want of originality and dearth- lack of ideas are due to ill-posited Saturn.
It is said by Hindu sages that the father of a person born during day time is indicated by Sun, whereas for one born by night Saturn is the chief governor denoting one's father.
Saturn is called St.Peter. It can open the gate of 
 Heaven or Hell to one.
Saturn governs pure blue; Black, dark brown and indigo are the colours prescribed to Saturn by 
 Westerners.
Saturn denotes all matters kept hidden or in secret, mines, mine ores, excavation of tunnels, trenches, burial ground, etc.', and the subject 
 Geology is governed by him.
Saturn is next to Mars in indicating lands and estates. Probably Mars denotes plants bearing fruits ' under the influence of the fiery Sun, whereas 
 Saturn may indicate the bulbs, potato, groundnut, tapioca-manioc, etc. growing underground.
Saturn gives such diseases as it takes a long time to be cured. All chronic ailments aad particularly those of the bony system are attributable to Saturn. 
 Mottled enamel; fluoride intoxication, eczema, amputation are caused by Saturn.

Physical Features :
Saturn produces people, thin-built, bony and pale, or of dark complexion. The face is either melancholic or the person will appear to,be much older than his actual age. The eyes will be deep-set. Also the look may appear as though he stares. Piercing eyes with profuse growth of dark hair on the eyebrows are the distinguishing features of a Saturnian. 
 Generally Saturn makes one a little deaf. The person will request the people to repeat what they say and he will hold his hands near the ears, suggesting to the speaker loudly. The limbs will be long and thin.

Parts of body : Osseous system - bones, hair and growth, ears, teeth, pneumo-gastric serve.

Diseases and defects :
Saturn and Moon forming unfavourable aspect show obstruction of lymphatic circulation, nutrition,
retention of waste in the body, membranes getting hardened, pyorrhea, pasteurization etc. Smallpox is caused by the adverse aspect among Saturn, Mars and Moon where there is pus. But chicken-pox is due to Mars and Moon alone as it ends in vesicular stage.
Saturn and Mars in evil aspect cause falls, injury, bruises, operation, amputation, fracture, curvature of the spine, gall-stone etc.
Mercury afflicted by Saturn produces fear complex appearing like a mad person, ear trouble, deafness (pus in the ear if Moon also is afflicted), chills, cold, diphtheria, asthma, pulmonary consumption, defective speech, paralysis, Vitamin 'B' and enzymes deficiency.
Saturn and Jupiter in mutual affliction make for impotency, constipation, Sciatica, Bright's disease 
 Locomotor Ataxia, Nausea and Cancer. 
 Sun and Saturn in adverse aspect cause blood
pressure, cerebral, haemorrhage, cerebral anemia, thrombosis, cardiac trouble, gout etc.
Venus and Saturn in eid aspect will cause
venereal disease leprosy, eczema, baldness, balck or blue patches and weakness due to malpractices.

Plants and Herbs :
Leguminous seeds, sesame, plaintain, hemp, ivy, rye, black grains, barley etc.

Places : Obscure valleys, hills, forests, deserts, caves, dens, sepulchers, ruinous, dilapidated buildings, very old buildings, churches, temples, holes,
trenches, coal-pits, cesspools, wells, stinking places, slum areas, dirty places, saloon, leather, tanning factory, bone meal factory and such ‘places with nauseating smell.

Political : Construction of huge buildings mostly for scientific research, laws concerning labour problems, disagreement and difference of opinion among the members of Parliament, death or overthrow of one in power, danger to the prestige of the nation, prohibition, control, rationing, emergency powers (not misusing independence), famine, earthquake, unnecessary and unavoidable wastage or public money, such unsuccessful attemptS as are made by
 Research Departments, Geological Survey.'

Economic : Heavy taxation discouraging private sector, decrease in Export, difficulty in Foreign
 Exchange, Labour problems-sit in strike-mediation not satisfying either, famine, floods, earth-quakes, many- rendered homeless; nationalisatioh; acquisition of
property, estate, mines from private owners and taking away their business; Wars, Difficulty in 
 Transport; loss of materials, men, vehicles, conveyance, arms and ammunition; scarcity of all the commodities.

Products : Lead; (with Sun) Antimony; (with
 Moon) Kerosene; (with Moon and Venus) Petrol; (with 
 Moon, Venus and Mars) Petroleum products; (with 
 Moon and Mars) Coal; (with Mars) Mine, Mine ones ; (with Mars 8 Mercury) Hume pipes; (with Mars and 
 Venus) cement; leather; hides,..skim (with Mars and 
 Sun) Metall*gy, (with Venus), wood.

Profession :
Dealers in lead, iron, black articles, hair, chowrie, wool, leather, quarry, metals, mine ores and the products mentioned above.
Sun and Saturn as significators show those who organise and manage big concerns either sponsored or assisted by Government,service in the Local Board 
 Panchayat Board, District Board or Government, 
 Surgeons.
Moon and Saturn show agriculturists, preaching old ideas, practises ancient customs and follows tradition; service in museum, stadium.
Mars and Saturn: Masons, engravers, surveyors, (Mercury) engineers, contractors, builders; (Venus) 
 Venereal expert; (Venus and Uranus) 'X' Ray 
 Technicians.
Rulership: Saturn is called "Ayulkaraka", The span of one's life is chiefly governed by Saturn.
Mars frames its own and it does everything in public, known to others.
Saturn follows its own law and it does everything in public known to others.

Mercury and Saturn :.Engineer, old Purana writers, Novelist, Censor department, shorthand writers, (with Mars) stenographers, intelligence department, false propaganda; tale carriers; black mailing (with Venus) wood cutters, teachers, scientists etc.

Jupiter and Saturn: Physicians, mine owners, brokers of landed properties, service in banks, religious endowments, political ' offices, scientific laboratories, big companies; clubs, societies and birth control appliances or propagandists.

Venus and Saturn : Dealers in mica or workers in mica mines, tailors, piper (who goes on continuously playing for Sruthi-otthu oodhubhavan), pimps (Mercury), play back, extras in cine field, draftsmen, trainees of horses and elephants, experts in skin disease, leprosy, Venereal disease etc.

Uranus and Saturn : Telepathy, osteopathy, healing without anymedicine, occult scientists, railway ‘service, geologists, astrologers, mesmerists, one who depresses, dejection difficulties, dispute, detention, deafness, duitful, economical, emaciated, excavation, foundation, frigidaire, funeral, fatal grudge, gravel, hindrance, hesitation, hide, hearing, hate, impediment, immovable, ice, inside, jealousy, kill, loss, lead,leather, labour, lament, melancholy, misfortune, needy, neglect, old, obnoxious, poor, practical, quarry, quiet, retrench, rheumatism, secretive, scape-goat, sad, skin, thrift tunnel, trench, underground, until, valley, vow, weary, worry etc.

Neptune and Saturn : Submarine, secret service, service in plaCes where liquids are dealt with (acids, oils) etc., service in stock exchange, fifth columnists.

Keywords of Saturn : ‘aged, bony, bankrupt, binding, bereavement, calculative, chronic, concentration, continuation, coagulation, delay,
dissatisfaction, dealers in land, animals like goat, donkey etc, and oil, kerosene, gingelly oil, (with Mars) pumpsets (with Venus) petrol.

Lucky Colour : If Saturn is a benefit, Colour
 Blue is the lucky one.

Lucky Number : 8,17,26,35,44,53 and so on.
 Lucky day : Saturday: next, Friday.
Lucky Gem : Blue Sapphire. 
 Lucky star day : Pushya, Anuradha and 
 Uthrapathrapada.