There is in existence a vast amount of: literature descriptive about the seven planets Sun, Moon, Mars,
 Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. From time immemorial these seven planets have been recognised, studied, understood and honoured. The very fact that the seven days of the week have been named after the seven planets in the order,mentioned above shows that our ancients had a profound knowledge about them and that they, in their characteristic way, defined the planets and named the days of the week after them. But very little is said about
 Rahu and out of the galaxy of influential planets and taken into cognisance planets in the heavens and in explaining all heavenly phenomena recognised the need and existence of Rahu and Kethu. Later. astrologers have by intuition built up a theory about the existence and influence of these two chayagrahas or shadowy points. Observation and scientific analysis have fully confirmed their intuition and to-day we have an amount of knowledge, though meagre and unconnected, of Rahu and Kethu, whereby it is well recognised that they have a distinct, profound and predictable influence on human lives and destinies.
 Western science is even poorer in their knowledge of these two points. Let me collect, collate and arrange, on a logical and understandable basis, existing knowledge.
We shall consider (1) What are Rahu and Kethu? (2) Their natures and characteristics; (3) Their influence in various houses; (4) Their effects through aspects and combinations; and finally (5) their place in predictive astrology according to
 Krishnamurti Padhdhati.

Now what do we mean by Rahu and Kethu? They are not substantial heavenly bodies with an observable body, shape or mass like the Sun, Moon and other planets. So all our ancients have allotted to them some houses in the Zodiac to be called their own, considering their influence.
Hindu mythology, has, in their characteristics way, symbolised these to as two parts of a single body. We find stories about all heavenly bodies and influences, and a scientist will under-stand that these stories are allegorical and learn from them, the nature, characteristics and periodicity of the various heavenly bodies and influences. In describing their natures and the divine laws governing them, our seers have gone far beyond what scientific observation and deductions can lead us to. The descriptions are surprisingly accurate though the expositions may be smiled at by the modern minded as childish stories or fairy tales. The profound truths contained in the
 Hindu Puranas can be understood only by deep and reverential study. Scoffers, after a cursory reading, can only grasp their apparent absurdity. Pearls are not gathered by surf riders. Only divers harvest them.

Let us disagrees here for a moment and consider the nature of Puranic tales about the planets in general
and about Rahu and Ketu in particular. This digression would benefit us by making us understand how immutable laws of nature and great truths that are perennial and that govern the world are imparted to us in the form of allegorical tales. This will provide us with a key to open the treasure chests of divine wisdom that our old Rishis have bequeathed to us. Let us now consider two such tales. -
The forces of good and evil are as old as creation, and the clash between them has been symbolised in Hindu Theology as war between Devas and Asuras. Devas are by nature good and powers that do good to the world. Asuras are by nature evil and are powers that do evil to the world. The war between them is eternal and the aim of the creator can only be the ultimate victory of good over evil.
 Hence, the Supreme Lord is supposed to aid the forces of good or Devas as against the forces of evil or Asuras. The churning of the ocean of life by two contending armies of Devas and Asuras on each is a picture of this perennial strife and according to the
 Puranas, the results were various; a divine elephant, a horse, a physician, the Goddess of wealth, and finally, Amrita or immorality. It is but natural that strength, skill, wisdom, wealth and success should result from this struggle between elemental forces and that ultimately good should prove victorious.
 In this allegorical representation the Supreme
 Lord is distributor of the Amrita) among the contestants. He (deludes the wicked by assuming the shap of an alluring woman Mohini, which literally means confusing brain. Forces of evil fall a victim to temptation while the
Devas or forces of good get a share of the Amrita or good that resulted. One among the Asuras how also impulses to do good even though he was by nature so and in general evil. He stealthily joined the ranks of the Devas and got a share of Amrita but was discovered and exposed by the Suri and the Moon.
 As luminaries, it is but consistent and reasonable that they reveal or expose the evil or darkness. The
 Supreme Lord cannot allow a force of evil to become immortal and so he cut at it with his sword. The Asura got beheaded but as a drop of ArnritP has been Amrita has been tasted by him, both the sundered parts remained alive, though separated. This is spoken as the serpent cut into two, the head being: called "Rahu" and the body and the tail "Kethu". That Rahu and Kethu should hate the Sun and the Moon is but a natural outcome of this incident and hence for ever they are at war. Periodically they succeed in Swallowing the
 Sun and the Moon but they escape as they are immortal. Eclipses are the moments when Rahu and
 Ketu swallow the Sun or the Moon. In this allegory, the origin and nature of Rahu and Ketu are symbolised.

We shall consider the second tale of the
 Moon and his wives, The orbit of the Moon is studdied with stars and 27 groups of stars through which the Moon passes in one circuit are called the 27 wives of the Moon. Our puranas say that the
 Moon, quite like us mortals, was fonder of some of his wives than of others and thus there was dissatisfaction and jealousy among the wives. Krithika and Rohini were loved best by the Moon and so the rest com
plained about this SATURN - SANI
preference to their common father, Dhaksha prajapathi or creator. The father cursed the Moon and ordered that his effulgence should wane each day.
 The Moon, beloved of Lord Siva or the Supreme being, ran to Him for succour and was counter-blessed to the effect that he should grow again and wax. Hence for a fortnight the Won wanes and for a fortnight waxes till she is full again. The natural phenomenon of the waxing and the wanning of the Moon has been allegorically represented in this story § and astrologically, the Moon is at her best in the constellations. Krithika and Rohini. A prosaic or plain statement of the above would be that, in every lunar month, the Moon’ passes through the 27 constellations and during a circuit passes through. all its phases waning from Full Moon to New Moon and again waxing from New Moon to Full Moon. The Moon is exalted in the constellations, Krithika and Rohini.

A similar reading of the previous allegory about
 Rahu and Kethu would be that they are not independent planets like the Sun, the Moon, Mars and others; that they do not have different ..nd independent orbits or periods;:that'as two parts of one body, their movement is interrelated or joint; that. they are at all times at opposite points of the zodiac like the head and the tail; that though they are by nature evil and are generally evil in influenceyet by association they are capable of doing good, that, by association with benefics, they turn benefit; that their juxtaposition with the Sun and the Moon cause eclipses.

Hindu Mythology has symbolically indicated the existence and nature of Rahu and Kethu. Except a
few who have ignored them, most of the ancient sages have divined their influences on the world and mankind. They have described them as "chayagrahas" or shadowy planets, meaning thereby that they have no mass, shape or substance and that they are celestial points on the Zodiac, with regulated movement and orbit and that they have a distinct and predictable influence on horoscopes. The motion of these points is denoted and judged, so that .their position, at any particular moment, can be calculated as accurately as the position of the Sun or the Moon, though owing to their nature being without substance this cannot be verified by visual observation.

Westerners have named these points Rahu and
 Kethu as Dragon's Head and Dragon's Tail, their very nomenclature revealing their origin from the Hindu
 Mythological tales. Caput and Cauda are also the names, given to Rahu and Kethu by Western astrologers. These sensitive points are also called nodes the ascending node being Rahu and the descending node Kethu. To understand how these imaginary points are accurately located and their movements are calculated, we have to consider the apparent paths in the Heavens of the two planets Sun and Moon(i.e.) the paths along which the Sun and Moon appear to an observe on Earth, to rotate. The Sun appears to move along an ellipse of which the Earth is a focus. The plane of this ellipse is inclined to the terrestial Equator at an angle of 23 degrees. The Moon, as the satellite of the Earth, moves round it and its path of this orbit is inclined to the Equator at an angle of 28 degrees, so that the planes of the orbits of the
Sun and Moon appear to the observer on Earth to be inclined to each other at an angle of 5 degrees. When two circles cut each other, there are two points of interception. The two points at which the orbit of the
 Moon cuts the orbit of the Sun are called the nodes, and they are exactly 180 degrees apart. The point of intersection formed when the Moon's motion is from
 South to North, is said to be the ascending node and named Rahu, and the point of interception formed when the Moon's motion is from North to South is called the descending node or Kethu. It has been observed in the zodiac at the rate of 19 degrees 0 minutes per year.

When the transit of the Sun and the Moon is close to these nodes, theMoon can intercept the light of the
 Sun form reaching the Earth, and thus cause a Solar
 Eclipse. The degree of proximity of the planets to the nodes determines the extent or size of the eclipse; when the Moon is within 5 degrees of the node on New
 Moon day there will be either a total or annular eclipse of the Sun. If the New Moon is more than 5 degrees away from the node and the Sun is at the node then we have a partial eclipse. When a full Moon is formed while the Moon is crossing the points of the nodes the shadow of the Earth falls on the Moon and a Lunar
 Eclipse is the result. This too may be full or partial, according as the Sun is at the node or a little away from it.

Thus, the only apparent phenomena that can be connected with Rahu and Kethu are the eclipses when shadows obscure the Sun and the Moon. Hence Hindu astrologers have called these "chaya grahas" or "shadow" planets.

We have seen that Rahu and Kethu are the points of Ecliptic where the plane of Moon's orbit intersects the plane of the Sun's orbit. Let us now consider their nature and influences and what their places are in predictive astrology, according to
 Westerners and the Hindu Sages.

Llewellyn George : "The point of the zodiac where a planet crosses from south to north Latitude is called the North Node and vice versa. The motion of the Moon's Node is retrograde about 3' per day.
Caput Draconis or Moon's North node is also called Dragon's Head.
The north node is called the ascending, and the south, the descending node. The Sun, never crossing the ecliptic, has no node; and likewise the Earth which is considered as moving in the same plane as the Sun."
Westerners are of opinion that Rahu is a benefic whereas Kethu is a malefic.
They do not take these nodes for consideration to predict events in one's life or in mundane astrology.

According to the Hindus, Rahu and Kethu indicate one born in a low caste; one who may have intrigue with girls; one whose thoughts and actions will be evil; one will resort to outcaste and low-born as well as ill-bred People.
One who is dissatisfied; fond of traveling; likes
residences facing south; may like to go to a mountain, a big jungle, or stay outside; finds pleasure in uttering
falsehood continues to speak untruth, knowing fully well that he utters a lie; one who will not mind to cohabit with quadrupeds or like the animals one who is harsh in speech; one who will be looking downward while walking or talking with others; if a male, he will use umbrella;. if a lady, she will use chowrie and also umbrella; if a lady, she will use chowrie and also umbrella (Uthra Kalamrita). Rahu and Kethu affect the spleen. Gas trouble and sharp acuts pain are attributed to the nodes. Buddhist, snake catchers, ass, ram, wolf, camel, serpent, poisonous insects, a dark place, culex mosquito, bug, insects, owl, etc., belong to the nodes
 Rahu denotes blackgram and Kethu indicates horsegram. For both the nodes, agate is the precious stone. (Phaladeebika).

Rahu indicates the paternal grandfather whereas
 Kethu shows the maternal grandfather. Both the nodes can cause imprisonment. Sinking with the ship or drowning, pleasure with diseased women, amputation. leprosy, giddiness, wrestling, life in a cave etc. are attributed to Rahu. Fear complex, insanity, allergy, leprosy, injury, fire accident, punishment from
 Government, renunciation, Moksha, wisdom after sufferings and bitter experience, weakness to have pleasure with other ladies.

To live in a rented house, to enjoy life at others' expense, to use others' vehicles, to have an office car, to take one in adoption, danger to the offspring, pilgrimage, ill-health to the native and defect to the children and defect in vision, are also judged from the position of Rahu and Kethu is one's horoscope.

Rahu and Kethu do not own any house as all the twelve houses are distributed to the seven planets. But some sages allot certain signs as owned by the nodes, certain signs as their exaltation ones and the opposite signs as their debilitation ones, etc. They themselves do not agree with each other. For prediction, one can offer correct results without taking into consideration their ownership, exaltation etc.

As Rahu. and Kethu do not own any sign, they represent the lord of the sign. But, the readers have to note that Rahu or Kethu will act as a strong agent to the planet with which it is conjoined. If they are not conjoined with any planet, then they give the results of the planet which aspects them. Only when they are neither conjoined with, nor aspected by any planet they represent the lord of the house. This finding can be inferred from the following principle (Uthrakalamrita-
 Khanda VI Sloka 14 onwards.)

"If Rahu or Kethu were to occupy the beneficial houses, 5 or 9 and if they are in conjunction with, or aspected by, the lord of the maraka houses, 2 or7, then they cause death in their periods, even though the lord of the houses, 5 and 9, are 10 produce
 Rajayoga."

If the nodes are in 2 or 7 (the maraka houses danger to life and if they are conjoined with or aspected by the lords of 5 or 9, they do not cause death; but they increase one's wealth, improve one's health and contribute for a long span of life. But if the nodes are in 2 or 7 and if those lords are conjoined with either of them or if they aspect them, they cause death.

Therefore Rahu and Kethu offer the results of the planets with which they are conjoined; or by which they are aspected or the ruler of the sign in which they are posited.

If Rahu or Kethu were to be in Gemini-Mithuna, or Virgo-Kanni, or Sagittarius-Dhanus, or Pisces-
 Meena, conjoined with the lord of 1 or 40r 5 or 7 or 9 or 10th house, then the person enjoys life gaining. wealth and becoming influential in their periods and sub periods.

If Rahu and Kethu were to be in a dual rasi, as mentioned above :and if it is conjoined with, or aspected by, any of the lords of the houses 6 or 8 or 12, then the person will:not receive much benefit in their periods, but he may lose any elder member of the family belonging to his or maternal side.

If Rahu or Kethu were to occupy an evil house, but they are conjoined with the lords of Kendra or Kona house they cannot produce beneficial results.
But some other scholars say that the nodes can bring in fortune even if they are in evil houses. But kalidas does not mention with whom he agrees.
He continues to say that Rahu and Kethu will cause to the person if they occupy evil houses even though they maybe conjoined with benefics.

If Rahu or Kethu be occupying the houses 6 or 8 or 12 and if they receive aspect from any of the three lords or be conjoined with any of them then during their dasas the native will suffer.

If Rahu or Kethu were to be in 6 or 8 or 12 and if they are conjoined with or aspected by lords of 2 or 7, they affect the longevity of the native.

If Rahu or Kethu were to to in either 6 or 8 or 12 and if they are connected with the lords of Kendra or
 Kona houses i.e., (1,4,7 or 10; 1,5 or 9) then the native will enjoy the beneficial results during the sub period of such a lord and they suffer from disease, undergo varieties, of difficulties, meet with accidents, and either succumb to such injuries or commit suicide or be drowned during the sub period of lord of 6 or 8 or 12.

If Rahu or Kethu occupy the houses 1 or 3 or 4 or 7 or 9 or 10 and if Rajayoga planets conjoin the nodes or aspect them, one can expect happiness, health, wealth, children, power, prosperity and comfortable conveyance in their periods.

According to Kalidas, Rahu is exalted in Taurus-
 Vrishaba and debiliated in Scorpio-Vrischika vice versa is that of Kethu. Rahu owns Aquarius-
 Rumba. Kethu rules Scorpio, Vrischika. Moola- trikona sign of Rahu is Gemini-Mithuna whereas that of Kethu is Virgo-Kanni. As Rahu and Kethu eclipse Sun and Moon Leo-Simha and Cancer-
 Kataka are their enemy signs. The friendly signs are Libra-Thulam and Capricorn-Makara. The neutral ones are Aries. Mehsa; Sagittarius-Dhanus and Pisces-Meena. Shri Ramadayalu
 Sanketanidhi, says that Gemini-Mithuna is the exaltation sign of Rahu and Virgo-Kanni is the
 Swakshetra or the sign ruled by Rahu.....
Sagittarius-Dhanus is the sign of exaltation of
 Kethu and Pisces-Meena is owned by Kethu. SATURN - SANI
He says that according to some astrologers
 Scorpio / Vrischika is the exaltation sign of Rahu and
 Aquarius is the sign of exaltation of Kethu.
Readers can understand that there is only confusion and contradiction and the new students will find it difficult to follow any of the authors. Better leave it.
Kalidasa says Rahu and Kethu are very strong when exalted.
Rahu is beneficial when it is in any of the houses 4,7,9,10 or 11. Kethu is favourable if it is in the 3rd house.

These are the general rules.
Let us consider what Rahu and Kethu indicate when they occupy the twelve house-Bhavas in a horoscope.
Rahu in 1 : A still-born child to the native; moles or scar in the head; wicked temperament, unsympathetic, diseased.
Rahu in 2 : Ever in want: diseased: worries due to loss of children; dark complexion; may have more than one wife: will have a mark or mole near the chin; does not hesitate to pick up quarrels.
 Rahu in 3 : Interested in agriculture. bold, rich, never suffers from the scarcity of foodstuff
 Rahu in 4 : Puts on jewels: may have two marriages; will engage servants; inauspicious to mother unless it is connected with a benefit; mostly a
person of suspicious mind; keeps his wife and also the concubine inside and will not allow them to be socialising; not reliable,
Rahu in 5 : Danger to children; it is evil; likely to stammer. Cruel minded; may be punished by the
 Government; may live in a dirty house or village; funky; sympathetic; miserly.
Rahu in 6 : Very bold; brave; will enjoy life; If
 Moon is also in 6, he will be liked by career women or ladies in good position; waste money; will be ever victorious; will win in any dispute; will have long life.
Rahu in 7 : May have two wives especially when there is another malefic; benefics can ward off the evil; yet he will be proud, arrogant, headstrong, diseased.
Rahu in 8 : Will be always ill: ever worried: confused: delay in achieveing one's aim, depressed..
Rahu in 9 : Unhelpful to children: will enjoy with one born in a low caste; will have servants; will never oblige any: will haste parents; will become rich and popular.
Rahu in 10 : Prefers widow's company and lives in dirty places. if Rahu is not connected with a benefic; can compose songs. cannot be straightforward- wicked person.,
Rahu in 11 : Many children: wealthy; will own lands and building- a little deaf- reputation in the war front- a pandit, a learned man, will achieve victory over enemies.,
Rahu in 12 : Will have a few children, will have defective vision, will be a sinner, unprincipled and unscrupulous; many get amputated, will be helpful to others.

Kethu in 1 : a still-born child; marks in the face: diseased-miserly-if connected with benefics- rich and will have long-living children.
Kethu in 2 : No savings; unhealthy; worried about family; especially about children; black complexion; marry twice: benefics conjoined with
 Kethu; cause a mole in the chin; lucky, will hate people and will be hated by them.
Kethu in 3 : Agriculturist : good natured, rich, successful messenger, contractor.
Kethu in 4 : Will posses wealth, jewelry, may marry twice; not good to mother if it is connected with benefics, then the evil results will be mitigated- will hate relatives.
Kethu in 5 : Inauspicious to children, may stammer, a bad person-may be punished by the
 Government-will reside in a place where there are incident people-will be cunning- Hydrophobia- unhealthy.
Kethu im 6 =: Courageous: enjoys life to entire satisfaction: Moon conjoined with Kethu threatens loss: on gains: no savings- will'\ be clever: liked by relatives: famous: learned: studious..
Kethu in 7 : May marry again after losing the first wife: second wife may suffer from some chronic
disease: it is true if a malefic is also conjoined with
 Kethu: but if a benefic is conjoined with Kethu, the evil will be warded off and he will have only one long living, lucky wife, malefics spoil the character of the partner and deny the pleasure of married life: always sleeping: no principles in life: cannot, command any: always « touring: a cruel persons.
Kethu in 8 : Will have chronic disease: gets legacy: enjoys at other's cost; finds pleasure in the company of other's wives: veneral disease: miserly.
 Benefits conjoined with or aspecting Kethu give long life and wealth.
Kethu in 9 : Affects the longevity of children, finds pleasure with low class ladies and servants; is never sympathetic; never donates; gets easily irritated; can argue; will talk nicely; will also talk ill of others, an indecent person, though very bold; self boasting: arrogant likes only such arrogant or foolhardy people.
Kethp in 10 : Finds pleasure in widow's company: lives in dirty places: benefics mitigate the affliction: will have faithful servant: will be clever, diplomatic, brave: good at engraving: will have social success: will tour always.
Kethu in 11 : Will have many children: will be rich, courageous; will have social success: will spend the minimum; will desire to do meritorious deeds.
Kethu in 12 : Will have a few children; defective vision; will be a sinner; weak-minded; unprincipled; will loss the ancestral property and reputation.

Again another doubt will arise among the students. What is that? It is said that Rahu and Kethu are always 180 deg. away. If Rahu it in the 11th house, then Kethu must be in the 5th house. It is said that
 Rahu in 11 gives many children, etc., whereas Kethu which will be in 5, threatens loss of children.
 Putradhosha; will have still born children or abortion, etc. Does it not appear to be funny? No, Rahu in 11 will protect the children during his dasa and its sub periods whereas Kethu in 5 will affect health or cause abortion during its period and sub period. Any planet indicating any result can offer such during its period and sub period. Rahu's beneficfial result cannot be cancelled by Kethu's malefic ones and vice versa; Each will operate separately in their respective periods.

Results to be expected due to certain relative positions of Rahu and other planets are dealt with by a few authors.
Mars, Rahu and Saturn in the 8th house deprive one of his nostrils.
Mars in 6, Rahu in 7 and Saturn in 8 cause loss of partner and independent life.
Venus in 2, Moon in 1, Mercury and Sun in 12 and Rahu in 5 will involve one in murder and punish him with imprisonment.
If Rahu is in 7 and if it is strong, the complexion of the partner will be black.
Rahu in the 7th house reduces the strength of the fecundity in the female to nothing. Saturn and Rahu in 7 cause hysteria. Mercury and Rahu in 6 cause
typhoid. Venus, Saturn and Rahu cause venereal disease. Jupiter and Rahu cause surgical treatment for birth control. .
Mars, Saturn and Rahu cause accidents.
Sun and Rahu indicate difficulties through
 Government Officials, litigation and loss of profession and prestige.
Moon and Rahu threaten worry, anxiety and inferiority complex etc.
These are the findings of the Hindu sages.

Rahu or Kethu will prove to be a benefic if they are conjoined with or aspected by the lords of beneficial houses or according to me if they occupy the constellation and sub of the planets owning favourable houses, i.e., for one born in the ascendant
 Capricorn, Venus is a benefic by owning the,10th house. Hence Rahu will prove to be a benefic, if it is conjoined with or aspected by Venus or if Rahu occupies the constellations belonging to Venus, i.e.,
 Bharani, Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada or the sub of Venus which will extend to 2 degrees 13 minutes 20 seconds in each constellations. The same principle applies to Kethu also.

Rahu in the constellation of the lords of 6,8 and 12 will province undesirable results, even though the hduse (Solar mansion and bhava) may be considered as a beneficial one. Upachayasaana.
Similarly, Rahu or Kethu will do the greatest evil, causing death to the person in its period or sub period
if it is in the constellation of the planet in
 Bhadhaksthana, or if it is in that of the owner of the
 Bhadhakasthana or in any manner connected with
 Kendhradipathi or occupies the constellation of the lords of 2 and 7 or is conjoined with, or aspected by them.
Suppose one is brn in Thula Lagna (Libra aScendant)- As it is a movable sign, the 11th sign is
 Bhadhakasthana. If there is any planet in Leo, Simha the 11th sign, then note the constellation of the occupant. If Mars is in 11, then Rahu in Mrigasirisha or Chithra or Dhanishta will prove to be evil whether it is in the 8th or 9th or 12th or 1st or 4th or 5th house counted from Lagna. It Is found that one passes away in Rahu's sub or sub period, irrespective of the house it occupies. If there is no planet in Bhadhakasthana, then take the lord of that house. In this example, Leo is the Bhadhakasthana and its lord is Sun. Hence Rahu in Sun's sub or in any of the 3 constellation of Sun,
 Karthikai, Uthrapalguni or Uthrashada will definitely prove to be a Maraka. Thus one is to judge, when alone correct prediction can be offered.

Rahu and Kethu are ever stronger than other planets whether they are conjoined with, or aspected by a planet.-
Suppose Venus and Rahu are conjoined in
 Pisces or Libra or Taurus. Even though Venus may be exalted or Vargothamamsa or occupying either the day house or night house, Rahu will predominate and offer the results of Venus to a greater extent than
 Venus itself. If Venus is the significator, then Rahu takes its effect and acts as a strong significator of the matter in one's horoscope.
If the Lord of 2,6 or 10 is conjoined with or if they aspect Rahu or Kethu, then the node so connected will indicate one's profession and one gets into service during the node's sub periods if the Lord of the constellation is also a significator.
If the Lord of 2,7 or 11 or the planets in 2,7 or 11 aspect Rahu or Kethu marriage will be celebrated in
 Rahu's sub periods, provided the lord of the constellation also is a significator.
Rahu or Kethu in 2,5, or 11, receiving good aspects, will give children in their periods and sub periods in any of the following stars Arudhra (Mercury and Rahu periods), Swathi (Venus and Rahu periods), Aswini (Kethu and Mars), Makam (Sun and
 Kethu), Moolam (Jupiter and Kethu).
Thus it will be seen that Rahu and Kethu are much
 Stronger than the planets conjoined with them or the lord of the sign in which either of them is posited.

Rahu and Kethu are declared to be evil by the
 Hindu sages. But it is a fact that they are not always evil Under certain circumstances they will prove to be more auspicious than any other planet. If Rahu or Kethu be in the constellation of the lords of beneficial houses and is conjoined with or aspected by benefics by lordship they will offer the most favourable and agreeable results.

If Rahu or Kethu be in a sign, they will give the results of not only the matters signified by that house and sign but also the matters indicated by the other sign ruled by the same lord. Expecting Sun and
Moon, each of the other planets rules two signs.
 So the nodes will offer the results of both the signs.

Rahu and Kethu are to be taken as the agents of the lord of the sign, the lord of the star and the lord of the sub. They are capable of producing the results caused by the combination of the sign of lord, star lord and sub lord.
A person had Rahu in Taurus at 26 - 36 ; then it is in Venu sign Taurus, Mars' star Mrigasirisha and
 Jupiter sub. So it offers one the job of a manager in an automobile industry in Rahu Dasa, Jupiter sub period, Venus sub sub and Mars shookshma.
 Invariably Rahu's of Kethu's results are modified by the lords of the constellations, sign and sub.

Rahu in the constellation of Sun, i.e., Karthikai,
 Uthrapalguni or Uthrashada. High fever: heart disease; giddiness; enmity, quarrels: unpleaSent domestic environments: fear and will suspect the partner, will not trust anybody changes the occupation and also residence suffer from contagious disease also: mental unrest, especially when Sun rules over evil houses. But if Sun is a Rajayogadhipathi, promotion, reputation, name, fame, cessation of enmity and charity are indicated.

Rahu in the constellation of Moon, i.e., Rohini or
 Hastham or Sravanam shows success in agriculture, good crop, purchase of cows: increase in income, a pleasant life, life with kith and kin, sea voyager and purchase of wet lands. But if Moon is afflicted or ill- posited or if it owns evil houses, it threatens danger by drowning, trouble in micturition, change of residence
and transfer, loss or danger to wife, pain and swelling in the limbs, injury to person, mental worries and anxieties.

Rahu in the constellation of Mars, i.e.,
 Mrigasirisha, Chithra or Dhanishta threatens loss by fire, theft or robbery:. loss in litigation: loss of money' difficulties, sorrow, open inimical activity: fondness for easy and dissolute habits, disputes, irritation: rash action, violence, disharmony with partner, calamities, failure of memory, danger from officials, government, the police, and military etc., chances for imprisonment, etc. If Mars is a benefic service in jail department and other favourable and agreable results are indicated.

Rahu in Mercury's constellation- Ashlesha,
 Jyeshta or Revathi shows that one will have a large number of acquaintances, friends and benefactors: will be fond of frequent travels; will earn satisfactorily in many ways: will save much: will gain royal favour: will come in contact with strangers: and either into agreement with them; will lead a happy life: will have many children; will purchase conveyance, gain through business agency. If Mercury is the lord of an evil house, the person will be a fraud, will give word easily, to everybody and will never keep it up or fulfil it: will appear outwardly to be honest and inwardly cunning, a cheat, so enemies will increase in number because of his own action; will never hesitate to utter falsehood or commit forgery, will suffer from Vitamin 'B' ' deficiency and typhoid.

Rahu in the constellation of Jupiter,
 Punarvasu, Visakham or Poorvapathrapada (and if,
Jupiter rules beneficial houses promises that the enmity will come to an end. One can come out victorious at election: will win in litigation, enjoy the good-will of Government servants, acquired wealth, will have the birth of children, increased pleasure, will gain influence and position through persons in power; will have good relationship with politicians; benefits from superiors: success in all efforts; happy celebrations in the family, visits to 'holy places and dips in sacred rivers.

Rahu in the constellation of Venus, i.e., in
 Bharani, Poorvapalguni to Poorvashada. The persons will purchase vehicles and costly articles, fancy ones, and good furniture, on hire purchase or will import them, will have good relationship with relatives, especially ladies; will acquire wealth, compromise: will have friendly alliances; will be fortunate, happy; will gain advantages from superiors; will have promotion; popularity, marriage, birth of children etc. If Venus rules over evil houses he will be liable to deception: will suffer from venereal disease: will have troubles from enemies; will be unfriendly with the other sex; will suffer ill-repute and scandal through ladies, loss of money and honour.

Rahu in the constellation of the malefic Saturn, i.e., in Pushyam, Anuradha or Uthrattadhi threatens ill- repute, injury by the person falling down or something falling on the person; bad association : mis- understanding with partner It may lead even to divorce.
 There will be incessant contests and disputes disease due to wind and bile. The correspondence will be depressing. Relatives will be in distress; friends and
well-wishers also will be in a helpless situation; will remove the residence to an unfrequented, remote place and will prefer seclusion.

Rahu in its own constellation, Arudhra, Swathi or
 Sathabisha, will cause disturbance in mind: anxieties, petty quarrels; misunderstanding with relatives, death of elders or partner in life: danger of poisoning, transfer to undesirable quarters; all varieties of scandal and ill-repute: ill-health, pain in joints: bites of insects: injury: may have to attend court as a witness at least: failure to intellect: loss of wealth; if it is in the sub of a benefic one can become the head of the family, enjoy life; have
 Promotion; visit foreign places, etc.

Rahu in Kethu's constellation-, i.e.,. in Aswini,
 Makham or Moolam. star threatens confusion, contradiction, danger from insects, fracture, piles, fistula, untimely meal, susceptibility to, infectious diseases, ill-health to the members of the family troubles through partner in life, enmity with superiors, loss of money, prestige honour etc., loss.of children, death of pet animals and cattle and misfortune of all kinds. But if Kethu is well posited in the horoscope, purchase of costly jewels, marriage, promotion, ownership of a building or car, starting of a business, birth of a child, etc. are indicated.

Kethu in Sun's constellation, i.e., in Karthikai,
 Uthrapalguni or Uthrashada the following are indicated. Bodily pain disapointment in attempts, danger, blood poisoning, cardiac trouble, obstacles in profession, disagreement with superiors, enmity, troubles in one's service, sickness to paternal relatives, long journey, separation from family
members, unfavourable Government order, loss in speculation.

Kethu in Moon's constellation, i.e., in Rohini,
 Hastham or Sravanam star: mental depression. disputes-worry about fair sex-trouble through daughters and mother: cold pleurisy, bronchitis
 Pneumonia, T.B., loss of relatives and also money.
 But if Moon owns good houses-bhavas, one will have both social and financial success.

Kethu in Mars constellation, i.e., in Mrigasira,
 Chitra or Dhanishta: Trouble due to rash action injury, amputation, dispute with brothers, partition enemies difficulty to have any progress, difficulties through lands, poor yield from field, high fever loss, loss by theft, imprisonment, piles, operation, profuse bleeding, abortion, etc. If Mars is a benefic by lordship, marriage, purchase of housed, maintenance of good health may be expected.

Kethu in Mercury's constellation i.e. Ashlesha, Jyeshta or Revathi- no more evil-end of troubles (reunion with) relatives-Favourable friends-no anxiety-no jealousy-no deception-gain of knowledge- probation- training- long journey-marriage- entering into contract and a new cycle of pleasant life.

 Kethu in Jupiter's constellation, i.e., in Punarvasu,
 Vishakham or Poorattadhi. Freedom from disease and debt-earning of money-satisfactory bank position-birth of children-profitable transactions. Success in efforts- association with politicians, bankers and judges; cure to allergy-marriage, etc.

Kethu in Venus constellation i.e., Bharani,
 Poorvapalguni and Poorvashada star-The person will enjoy life-will have a good house to live in-well furnished-will have increase in income- improvenment in status; wife's health will be indifferent- may own a comfortable conveyance-will pray to 
 Goddess who crowns him with success; will redeem jewels and other pledged articles; overdraft facilities will no longer be needed.

Kethu in Saturn's constellation i.e., in Pushyam,
 Anuradha or Uthrapathrapada star. Loss of close relatives-trouble from enemies, danger of imprisonment, loss of money, sale of property, loss through floods, failure of agriculture, heavy loss in all ways, change of residence, litigation with landlord, cutaneous disease, mental anguish, disagreement with relatives, running away from the house, secret activities with servant maids.

Kethu in Rahu's constellation i.e., Arudhra,
 Swathi, or Sathabhisha: sale of the possessions, litigation, chances for imprisonment dispute disagreement with friends-also prestige at stake loss of power and _ property, punishment by 
 Government, loss by theft, failure of business; adultery with low class ladies, ill-repute-reversion in service and reversals of attempts- disapoinment.

Kethu in Kethu's constellation i.e., in Aswini,
 Makam or Moolam; confusion, worries, much loss, delay, separation, estrangement, bereavement, blood poisoning, depression, etc. But if Kethu is in a good house and its lord is also well posited, the evil will be less