THE TWELVE HOUSES AND THEIR SIGNIFICANCE
All matters are distributed among the 12 houses and each house influences certain matters. One is to judge a particular house or a few houses for any particular affair. What each house denotes is discussed below.
House is measured from cusp to cusp. Therefore
 Lagna Bhava or first house commences from the point that just rises in the East and extends up to 2nd cusp and the whole area is to rise and is below horizon.
 That which has risen just before birth and extends upwards in the Eastern horizon is the 12th Bhava.

Lagnam (First Bhava)
Lagnam : Adya (first); Kalpa. Udhayam (ascending); Janma (birth): Seersea (head): Dhanus (physical body); Anga (limb); Deham (physical features); Varthamana (living or livelihood).

The first house or what is commonly known as the Ascend ant (Lagna) signifies the native, his general appearance, character and temperament. It shows his physical stature, colour, form and shape and constitution in general. The Ascendant is always an important factor in the matter of health. Good aspects to the cuspal degree of the Asc, portray good health, while bad aspects threaten ill health, during the period of the planets throwing the bad aspect. It also indicates the native's vitality and vigor, his peculiar habit of
thinking, his natural disposition and tendencies, the native's personality and struggle for life, his success or failure in attempts (1st, 10th and 11th houses), his fortune or misfortune, etc. One should examine the 1st, 3rd and 8th houses to ascertain the probable span of one's life. The lagna also describes the native's station in life, general candour (status), honour, dignity, prosperity and general well-being. One should guess from the first house whether one has the determination and courage to push forward and forget ahead. The lagna, according to Hindu sages, shows the native's residence abroad. Therefore one should examine this house before one predicts whether the native will live
 In his own place or will make fortune is a far-off place.
 In short, this house is the significator of any changes in the individual's life. Hence this is of supreme importance. All depend upon the occupant and aspects to Asc.

The 1st house governs head and the upper part of the face.

In Mundane Astrology, ascendant of a country signifies the people in the country or general state of the locality or the State for which the horoscope is cast.

In Horary Astrology, the first house may be said to symbolise the person asking the question.

Bhattothpala says in 'Prasnajnana' that longevity, age, birth, health, happiness, virtues, suffering, one's form and complexion are to be investigated from the first house.
Limbs (growth of the limbs); happiness, misery, hair, appropriating other's money (If Saturn and
Mercury are in Ascendant afflicted by Jupiter the individual will not hesitate to misappropriate) gambling on other's money or for others, skin, sleepy (whether the native will be active or sleepy). If Saturn is in lagna especially with malefics Kethu or Rahu, then the native will be lazy ; (the wife will have abortive tendencies) ; if Mars and Mercury are there then he will be ever active. Kalidasa adds that tendency to insult other men, freedom from disease, perseverance in the breeding of cattle (lord of 6 in the lagna or connected with the lord of lagna), loss of decorum and blame from one's kinsmen are all to be predicted from the first house.
Lagna indicates the advantages gains and profit to younger brother and his friends.

The name, fame, reputation and the patrimony of mother are attributed to the Lagna Higher studies, long journey, life in a hostel during the study, connection with strangers and foreigners for the native's children (especially the first child) is judged from the Ascendant.
 Danger to maternal uncle, end of open inimical activity is to be read from the first house. Demise of partner wife or husband and the pleasurable pursuits and speculation of father is also included.
Short journeys, editing, publishing, neighbours to elder brother are pre shadowed by lagna.
Thus each house signifies certain matters concerning the individual and the same house indicates various matters relating to the relatives of the native. A house may be fortunate to the native and
at the same time it may be unlucky to a relative. The native may keep good health but visit hospital to attend on an ailing relative and be worried because of the relative.

Second House :
Artha (wealth); Bhukthl (food ; Dhakshakshi (right eye) Annapana (whether one eats or drinks). Asya (face; Nayana (eye); pathrika (document); vak (speech; kutumbha (family), manga lam (auspicious, happy end; sva (property).
The second house is the house of money and money matters are largely decided with reference to the second house. It denotes the financial circumstances or fortune, profit or gain, loss or damage and general financial prosperity of the native.
 This house shows what the person acquires by individual effort and the degree of prosperity which he will enjoy. In short, all that is acquired through one's power and resources come under the purview of this house. The second house indicates the individual's worldly attainments by means of possession of extrinsic value such as money or those things held to represent money such as jewellry, precious stones and metals (gold, pearls, rubies, diamonds, etc.), documents, bonds, securities; stocks and shares, promissory notes, mortgages, bank balance or other negotiable or exchangeable assets, etc.
This house deals with family. It includes all close relatives of the native, his grandfather, grandmother, mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters, etc. in the
family without reference to any _ particular relationship. Is Moon is in the 2nd house receiving good aspect from Jupiter and Venus, it suggests that the native has a good and big family. If the.Moon in the same position is beneficially aspected by Saturn, then it shows a small family : interval between one child birth and the next will be above average : Rahu shows birth control.
Another important influence of the second house is the native's ability to express his thoughts. The second house rules "vak" meaning speech. If Ketu were to be in the 2nd house falling in a mute sign (Kataka-Cancer, Vrischika-Scorpio and Meen a-
 Pisces are the three mute signs), then the native may be dumb. If, in a nativity, Mars occupies the 2nd house receiving good aspect from Jupiter and Mercury, then the native may indulge in good conversation. If Moon happens to be in the 2nd house in good aspect from
 Mars, then the person will be out spoken. If Moon in the 2nd house is in good aspect to Mercury, then the native will speak clearly ; if Jupiter throws good aspect to Moon in this position, then he will speak wisely ;
 Venus throwing good aspect makes the native liable to talk about sex, cinema and pleasurable pursuits ; the native will speak less if Saturn forms good aspect to the Moon in the 2nd house ; Uranus forming good aspect to Moon in 2 shows that the individual will be eccentric in speech. If Sun forms good aspect, then the person will be a dignified speaker. Mercury, the planet of pure intellect, occupying the 2nd house identical with an airy sign, denotes that the native is likely to be a good conversationalist. In this way one should read the results of a planet in any

The second house governs second marriage.
 This is so because the 2nd house is the 8th to the 7th representing the first wife and it is generally after the death of the first wife that one will go in for second marriage. Though marriage is largely the concern of the 7th house, the second house should also be referred to ascertain the time of marriage, description of partner and the state of married life.
The second house also represents (i) vision or the power of observation. (ii) the right eye (generally eye) (the 12th house is said to govern the left eye), (iii) memory and (iv) imagination. The other parts of the physical body governed by the 2nd house are the nail, tongue, nose, teeth, cheeks and chin. Evil planets in the second house cause mole or scar in that part of the body, Mole is founded from infancy, but scar is formed when the person runs the period of the planet afllicting the second house.
One has to investigate the second house to find out whether the native protects others and whether he gains or losses through those dependent on him. Also whether he has good understanding or mis- understanding with family members. If benefic planets occupy the 2nd house, then the native will have good understanding with his family. If malefics are there, then he will have no easy time with them, whenever he runs the periods or sub periods of the malefics. If the lord of 6 is in the 2nd house and afflicted, then estrangements with the maternal uncle or aunt will be common. The second house also concerns law suits, uses of ordinary or costly metal (the metal depending upon the planet), his or her trade and business
according to the nature of the planets posited and profit or loss thereby, the native's ability to buy and sell and faith in ancient culture and custom (If lord of 12 is in 2), This house suggests whether the person will be extravagant or economical. If Saturn is in the 2nd house he will be economical and slow in speech. If
 Mars were to be there, the native will be extravagant and outspoken in speech. If Jupiter were to occupy the second house, then one will earn through fair means and also spend rightly. Further, he will speak well. The 2nd house has to do with loans, money lent or money borrowed by a person, money employed in speculation, etc., money left with a guardian, trust etc.
Being a marakasthana, the second house shows the death of the individual ; the kind or type of death is influenced by the 8th house. 3rd house indicates one's span of life. 12th to any house is the detrimental one to the house matters. Therefore 12th to the 3rd house is the second. Hence 2nd house is a marakasthana. 8th house also signifies one's span of life. 12th to the 8th house is the 7th. Hence 7th house is the other marakasthana. (Sthana means house ; Maraka means, death).
This house, along with the 5th house, has to be considered to find out whether one has the aptitude for music. If the 2nd house is an airy sign, then the ¢ native may turn out to be a vocalist. If Mars, Saturn and Venus are connected with the 2nd house, he may take to tabla or mridangam and prove successful. If the 2nd house falls in any airy sign and of short ascension, he will take to flute. Lord Krishna plays on flute. Why? His star was Rohini in Taurus. Second
house is Gemini, an airy sign of short ascension.
 Hence he has flute. If of long ascension, be would do well to take to nayanam (nadaswaram). If the 2nd house happens to be a watery sign, then he may take to jaladarangam. Neptune shows stringed instruments.
In questions relating to affairs of nations, this house signifies national wealth, banking activities and all matters concerning revenue.

In horary questions, the 2nd house denotes the money of the querist, his loss or gain in speculations relating to business and pecuniary affairs or any question In particular (1st, 2nd and 11th houses); also of loans, etc.
According the Uttara Kalamritam, the following are to be guessed from the 2nd house :-
Belief in sacred tradition, truth and falsehood, tongue, eyes, nails, garment ; copper, diamond, gem, pearl, trade, softness of speech, perfume (incense), to support others, effort in acquisition of wealth, « miserliness or liberality, clear oratorical ability, gold, good silver, corn, cereals, nose, rules of going and and a close dependent.

In Prasnajana, Bhattotpala avers that one should look for pearls, ruby, gems, minerals, wealth, clothes and business from the 2nd house.
While second house shows gain to the native, it also indicates loss to younger brother and his changes, life in a foreign place etc. Malefics in the second house threatens loss to the native and imprisonment of the,
younger brother. Second house includes gitt by younger brother to the native. Mother's gains and her elder brother are indicated by the second house as it is the 11th to 4th; rank, position, profession and success of children are judged from the occupants of the second Bhava and the aspects to the second house. Beneficial aspects give rise in its period and malefics do harm in their periods if there are both harmonious and disharmonious aspects and if both benefics and second house.

Long journey of the maternal uncle, danger to partner or the share of profits to partner and the common disease of the native's father are shown by the second house. Purchase of a house or land or vehicle by the elder brother is found from the malefics occupy the second house of the native.

Third House
Dhairya (courage, firmness); Duschikya (bad thoughts); Uras (breast); Karna (ear), especially right ear; Vikrama, (prowess); Parakra ma; Bhratru,
 Sahodhara (brother or sister) ; younger one, Virya (heroism) depending upon the planet ; Pourusham (mental strength).
This house rules one's mental inclination and ability, memory and the inherent propensities of the mind and intellect. The third house indicates inclination to study and the ninth house stands for higher education, research, wisdom and_ philosophical tendencies.

This is the house of courage, firmness, valour prowess and heroism. If the lord of 10 or 6 has
connection with the 3rd house in any manner, then the native may be a soldier or an army officer depending on other considerations. The. third house is the
 Bhrathrusthana and represents the native's younger brother or sister. Cousins, kindred, casual acquaintance and neighbour are also governed by this house. Being the sahayasthana, one should refer to the third house to ascertain whether the native has the assistance of others or is individually working hard.

The third house also deals with short travel. If the third house is well connected, one may undertake small inland journeys such as travel by cycle, bus, tram, land, railway, crossing rivers and lakes and short air travel.
 The 9th house has to be looked at for long journeys, journeys to far-off places and sea or air journeys to long distances. All kinds of correspondence and letters, papers, writing, accounting, mathematics, news of transit, means of communication such as cycle, bus, train, rail, etc., post offices, letter boxes, telephone, telegraph, teleprint, television, telecommunication, radio reports, signal, airmail, etc. belong to this house.
 If the third house or its lord has any connection whatsoever with houses 2, 6 or 10 one can take up agency and do commission business. He can also be a broker, representative, mediator, messenger, publicity officer, etc., If the 4th house or its lord has any connection, then the native can engage himself as an estate broker. Since the third house signifies books and publications (magazines), one can become an editor, newspaper reporter, news correspondent, information officer, journalist, etc. The third house also governs change of residence (being in 12 to the 4th house), restlessness want of peace), all movement.
transition and change, library, bookstore, bargain, signature signing contracts or agreements, rumours of all kinds, conveying of messages, carrying tales etc. - Kethu in the third house makes one a duplicate "Narada".
The parts of the body ruled by the third house are ears (especially right ear), hands, throat, shoulder blade, collar bone, arms, and the nervous system.

If, in a lady's chart, the lord of 3 happening to be a natural benefic is posited in the 2nd house, the native may put on jewels on ear, hand and neck ruled by the third house.

If Rahu or Kethu is conjoined with Mars or with the lord of the sixth house, or if Rahu or Kethu is placed in 3 along with Mars, then ear disease may result. Generally, malefics occupying any house will affect that part of the body ruled by the particular house. If malefics occupy the third house, there may be a mole in the part governed by the third house.

If the lord of 10 is in 3, the native is likely to get employment. If he is a doctor, then he may deal in ear diseases (E.N.T. Specialist).

In State Astrology, the third house shows neighbouring countries and treaties with them. It also rules over transportation, whether it be aerial transport, rail, postal, road, telegraph, radio or telephone. This , alSo represents libraries and public education generally.

In Uttara Kalamritam, it has been mentioned that ears, battle, roadside place, confusion of the mind,
causing sorrow, soldier, one's own relations (brothers and sisters), throat, eating unspoiled or pure food, partition of property, the part of the hand between the fore-finger and the thumb (sacred to the Manes), female servant, journey in a small good vehicle and one's own religious duty are denoted by the third house.

In Jataka Parijatam, the revered author explains that the welfare of the younger brothers enterprise, tone, ear, select ornaments, articles of apparel, steadiness, valour, strength, edible roots and fruits are to be seen from the third house.

While offering a prediction, e.g., as 3rd house denotes courage, one has to find out whether one will be bold or not from the 3rd hands-Saturn in the 3rd house makes one cautious and to some extent, he will wait and see and he will not boldly do anything.
 But people having Mars in the 3rd house are very brave. If two people stand on the bank of a river, find that some stranger-who is not a swimmer-has slipped and fallen down in the river, the person who has Saturn in 3 will be hesitating to assist as he wants to be sure of his safety whereas he who has Mars in 3 on the spur of moment will plunge into the river and try to save one who is about to be drowned.

Health of the younger brother, his success or failure, loss to or investment by mother, gains to his children or the friends of children, rank and position of the maternal uncle, long journey or higher studies of the partner, birth of children to the elder brother or sister is to be judged from the 3rd house. It is a maraka house
to father. In most of the horoscopes Rahu in the 3rd house causes father's death during its period or sub period. Suppose one is running the period or sub period of the significator of the 3rd house. Imagine the mother of the native has lost something and the native's child's friend has visited the place and his character is doubtful. Then you can be, mostly sure, that this friend of his child might be the culprit who would have caused loss to the native's mother.

Fourth House :
Graha (house); Vesma (home); Kshiti (land);
 Bandhu (relation); Matri (mother); Vahana (vehicle) ;
 Sukha (happiness) ; Ambu (water) ; Vidya (learning).
The fourth house corresponds to the feminine sign Cancer (Kataka) ruled by Moon identified by
 Hindus as Goddess Parvathi. Hindu sages have therefore attributed the fourth house to the mother.
 Westerners however consider the fourth ‘house for father which is not supported by the wise Hindu astrologers. The fourth house relates to one's home, residence, domestic environments and general condition of the native in the later part of his life. This house is also called the 'grave', meaning thereby that it is concerned with all hidden things such as private affairs, curious secrets and secret life. One may hoard
 One's savings if the beneficial Saturn were to occupy this house receiving good aspects from the lords of 2 and 11. The fourth also shows one's landed or immovable property and those holdings which one takes on lease or rent as also those rented or leased out to other people. The fourth denotes whether one
will have vehicles of one's own or enjoy others, vehicles. All permanent possessions such as fields, pastures, corn-fields, farms, orchards, mines, real estate, gardens, buildings, ancient dwellings, monuments and antiquities are influenced by this house.

The fourth house is also to be examined in connection with patrimony (all inheritance descending by a rightline, hereditary properties and treasures hidden under the ground.)

This house has a bearing on education and qualifications of person. In this respect the fourth house may be taken to indicate school and collegiate education in contra-distinction to higher education and research denoted by the ninth house. The third house relates to mental inclination to study a particular subject.

The fourth house hears significance to the termination, conclusion and end of every undertaking whether in the nativity or in horary astrology.

In State Astrology, the fourth households away over mines, gardens, public buildings, crops, agriculture and determines the termination of any undertaking.

Kalidasa says in Uttara Kalamritam that the following are to be guessed from the fourth bhava.

Learning, vehicles similar to rickshaws, small boats and the like, mother, oil bath, relations, caste, small well, water, milk a medicine or great supernatural
efficacy (Sun in 4 well aspected by Uranus), trust, false allegation a tent or pavilion, digging a pond or well and their installation for public use, mansion art, entrance into a house, conclusion, disposition loss of ones dwelling, paternal property, celestial food, the art of finding out where stolen property is kept, development of vedic and secret texts, cow, buffalo and abundance of corn, gain, etc. produced in wet lands.

Bhattotpala is of the view that the fourth house has to do with great herbs, treasures and entering holes or caves.

If the fourth house and Mars are favourable during their conjoined periods one will buy lands. If they are unfavourable, he may sell away or there can be loss through the investment on land, buildings etc.

If the 4th house and Venus are beneficial one will possess a car or any other vehicle when he runs the conjoined period of the significator of the 4th house and Venus or any planet connected with Venus.

If there is an evil aspect, then in their conjoined period one can occur heavy expenses due to the vehicle or meet with an accident or sell away the conveyance and suffer for the usual transport, he enjoyed.

If the 4th house significator and Moon receive good aspects, he will have long-living and helpful mother with good understanding and relationship. If they are afflicted by adverse aspects, one loses his or her mother or be unfriendly etc.

4th house indicates the bank position of the younger brother the health of mother, the loss to children (children may go to another place) gains to maternal uncle ; inherited property, popularity, prosperity and profession of the partner ; danger to. father as it is the 8th house to the 9th the open enemies of the elder brother, since 4th house is the 6th counted from the 11th house. 12th house indicates secret enemies. Their speculative activities, their children etc., are also shown by the 4th house.

Fifth House :
Rajanta (Soverign's mark) ; Kara (tax or toll) ;
 Buddhi (intellect) ; Tanaya (children) ; Putra (son) ;
 Jatara (belly) ; Sruti (vedic knowledge) ; Smriti (traditional law); poorvapunya (virtuous act previously done).
T
he fifth house is the house -of progeny. It denotes whether one will have children or not. Benefics or the
 Moon in the fifth house increase the strength and number of the progeny. Fruitful signs (Cancer-Kataka,
 Scorpio-Vrischika and Pisces-Meena) on the cusp of the 5th or the 11th promise children, if the other testimonies also lend support. Barren signs. (Aries-
 Mesha, Leo-Simha and Virgo-Kanya) on the cusps of the 5th and 11th house's (11th house being 5th to the 7th, representing the wife) and the lords of 5 or 11 not in fruitful signs, Moon not in a fruitful sign, the lagna not a fruitiful sign, the lord of the lagna not occupying a fruitful sign and no fruitful planet in the 5th or the 11th house, are indications of no children, The fifth house signifies the first conception or pregnancy ; the seventh shows the second ; the ninth the third and so on.

The fifth house presides over pleasure, society and social inclinations. It deals with tastes and fancies artistic talents and property derived through wife or business partner's luck. The type of recreation, entertainment, amusements, sports, romance and similar interest that appeal to a person is denoted by this house. It is connected with all material and physical pleasuresgames, sports, cinema, opera, drama, music, dance, banquets, merriment and amusements of all sorts. It indicates places of entertainment.

The fifth house being a trine house, indicating ‘poorva punya sthana' shows what meritorious deeds one could have done in the previous birth. It is also concerned with speculative affairs and all matters of enterprise prompted by the desire nature. All games of chance like cards, crossword puzzles, dice, horse, shares etc., lottery, gambling or betting and stock exchange come under the domain of the fifth house.

The native's love affairs, the degree of success or failure achieves in love affairs, courtship and licentiousness, the legitimate and_ illegitimate attraction and social intercourse between sexes prior to wedlock after marriage come under this house ; also kidnap, rape, and what not. It may be said to represent the seat of the physical and magnetic attractions between the opposite sexes.

In questions relating to national affairs, the 5th house indicates envoys, ambassadors, banquets, etc.

The following according to Uttara Kalamritam, have also to be determined from the 5th house.
Good morals, mechanical art, discretion (weighing merits and demerits of a thing), discrimination between virtue and sin, prayer by incantations, chanting of vedic hymns, religious mindedness deep pondering profound learning and wisdom, enormous richest hereditary post, festive occasion, intense satisfaction, a long literary production umbrella, a great desirable action, paternal property, liaisons with courtesans and gift of cooked rice.

Bhattotpala has mentioned that chanting of mantras or sacred hymns, spiritual practices, intelligence and literary, compositions are influenced by this house.
- The author of Jataka Parijatham makes it clear that person's tutelary deity, intelligence, son, religious merit and ruler or sovereign are to be ascertained from the 5th house. According to him pilgrimage has to be predicted taking the 2nd 5th, 7th and 11th bhavas, visits to far-off places being found out with reference to the 12th bhava. (Malefics in the second house show separation from family. It may include, therefore, a journey. 5th house connected with malefics will bring in separation from children and benefics in 5 indicate visit to holy places to fulfil one's vow : the house to make a journey and to have some breaks on the journey while proceeding or while returning home. The 10th house shows pilgrimage to holy places or journey on duty).

5th house shows that one will be inclined to take risks and speculate, One may speculate. His gains or
loss is shown by the planet with which lord of 5 is * conjoined or by which it is aspected. Also the bad aspects to 5th cusp from the lord of 5 or 8 or 12 show gains in speculation. (This is my unfailing finding.
 Research students can verify.)

5th house indicates short journeys, publications of the next younger brother, mother's bank position, one's own child's or the second younger brother's (younger to the next younger brother) health, success or failure, their characteristics, fortune etc., changes in maternal uncle's position his loss or hospitalisation of pet animals, 6th house indicates pet animals. 12th shows hospitalisation. 5th house is the 12th to the 6th).

Gains to partner, profit to the opponent, friends of the partner, father's father’, long journey made by father, his higher academical qualification, his contacts with strangers and foreigners, marriage to elder brother or sister, elder brother's partner in business or maraka (death).

Sixth House :

Rina (debt); Asthra (Arms); Kshata (wound);
 Roga (disease); Sathru (enemy) Dwesha ;
 Vairi ; Agha (sin); Dushkritya (a wicked act) ;
 Beethi (fear); Avajna (humiliation) ; Bhaya (danger)..:

The sixth house is known as the 'house of sickness. It indicates disease and sicknes, the real state of the disease, recovory from it and whether it is of a long or short duration. The sixth is concerned with disease, the 12th with hospitalisation and the 11th
which is 12 to the 12th house and 6 to the 6th house governs discharge from hospital. This is an important house for those who have to do with nursing and treatment of the sick. This is also related to food and dietary habits and all health is often due to improper care of the body and inattention to the diet most suited.

Mercury in the sixth house shows that the native has many fads and fancies regarding diet. Saturn in this
 Position shows under-nourishment generally. Mars occupying the sixth house causes over-indulgence in eating. Jupiter in the sixth is generally good for health matters but at times it denotes ill-health through love feasting ; Moon denotes that the native will be whimsical and fanciful in the matter of eating and over fond of liquids and spirits especially if the sixth house happens to fall in a watery sign and it has connection with Mars. If Venus is in this position, the native has a taste for nice food and drinks and may endanger his health through excess.

One should not predict sickness without considering all other factors. The health will break down only when a person runs the periods or sub periods of planets occupying the sixth house or the stars of these occupants or during the periods of planets in conjunction with the lord of the sixth house.
 In general, malefics occupying any house affect the part of the body ruled by that house especially so if the house happens to be the sixth.

The sixth house is also connected with work and the service rendered by the individual and exhaustion caused to him thereby., It also denotes his employees, subordinates or servants -whether he is in the service
of others or he has others as his employees. The condition and faithfulness of his inferiors is to be ascertained from this house. If benefics are posited in the sixth house, the native may gain by servants ; If malefics were to be there, then he may lose through his servants and incur expenses on them outweighing his income. The seventh house represents the person with whom the native transacts anything or banker, or one who lends or borrows. If the native raises a loan, then the 7th indicates the banker or the lender and the sixth house being 12 to the 7th house denotes that the lender's financial position deteriorates. The sixth house is therefore the house of debt or borrowing. The native will be successful in raising loans if benefics occupy the 6th or if the 6th house or its lord is connected with benefics in any manner.
This house also governs pet animals and small cattle, domestic creatures, tenants (agricultural tenant or house tenant), enmity, dress and hygiene, sanitation, dietetics, herbs, food and clothing and the six flavours. Since it is said to be a upachaya sthana, it indicates favourable’ result in competition or otherwise.

The sixth is also the house of phenomenal magic and superstition : also matters likely to bring worry and annoyance.

According to Uttara Kalamritam, disease, obstacle in any undertaking, maternal uncle, swelling in the body, insanity, a boil, enmity, sickness, miserliness, debt, wound, mental worry and intense anguish, incessant eye trouble, receiving aims, untimely meals, trouble and fear from one's dayadins,
exertion, service, a severe colic or gout, theft, calamity, prison house and cruel actions have also to be studied with reference to the sixth house.

In Mundane Astrology, the sixth house rules the working class, industries, sanitation and public health.
Vaidyanatha Dikshitar has elucidated in his work "Jataka parijatam" that diseases, enemies, bad habits and hurts are to be guessed from the sixth bhava.

Sixth house is one which needs explanation as in one sloka, it is condemned as an evil house, whereas the same author takes it as a house which offers beneficial results when occupied by malefics calling it as upachaya sthana. How to interpret it, needs exhaustive explanation.

Sixth house shows the purchase or sale of conveyance, building etc , by younger brother or sister : short journeys of the mother, the bank position and profession of the first issue and his family, loss to the partner or investment or purchases made by the partner and the secret enemies of the partner or the partner's changes and life in a foreign place or disharmony with or separation from the partner.

It is the house indicating the name and fame, the occupation or business of the father. If, in the native's chart, lords of 6 an 10 form good aspect and lord of 6 is strong, the native has the same profession as the father.

Sixth house is the house of danger to one's elder brother or friend.
Unless 6th house is auspicious, business people cannot have satisfactory assistance from the bank, the customers etc. For over-draft facilities the 6th house must receive most favourable aspects.

Seventh House :
Saptama ; Jamittra ; Chittottha (desire) ; Kama ;
 Dvuna (love) ; Madha (passion) ; Gamana (cohabitation) ; Astna (setting; Advan (a way or road);
 Marga (way) ; Loka (public) ; Kalathra (wife or husband) ; Pathni ; Pathi ; Kalathrasampat (dowry).

The seventh house is the "House of union or earthy ties". The seventh house represents legal bondage. It is through this that one ought to divine about marriage. Although marriage is principally the concern of the seventh house, it is necessary to consider the houses 2 and 11 also in this respect.

By marriage, It is meant that there is an addition to the family. The second house includes father, mother, wife, children, etc.

The married partner brings permanent tie of friendship for progeny and pleasure which is influenced by the 11th house, Therefore, one has to examine not only the seventh house but also the houses 2 and X11. Houses 2, 7 and 11 connected with benefic planets either by association or by aspect denote that the partner in life will come of a respectable family, will be virtuously disposed and will possess good qualities to enable one to lead a happy and harmonious wedded life.

Besides the life partner, the partner in trade or business and the degree of success achieved through' such partnership is also shown by this house. The seventh house also refers to all those with whom the native enters into any contract or agreement, those with whom the native is engaged in quarrels and comes into conflict in the open through arguments, litigation, duels, etc., the native's competitor in any undertaking, his rival in any contest as, for instance in the election, his public adversaries, etc. In a nut shell ; the seventh house may be said to indicate all those with whom the native transacts or deals in any manner-the engineer or contractor who builds the house for the native or, if the native himself be an engineer or contractor, the person for whom the native builds ; the doctor attending on the native or the patient on whom the native attends if he happens to be a medical practitioner ; the person who lends the native money or he who borrows from the native ; and so on. Good aspects to the planet in the seventh house or to the cusp of the seventh house portray good relationship with the public and favour from them. During the period of the planet in evil aspect, one ought to be careful in undertaking any public activity.
This house denotes whether one will mix up freely in society.

Fines, divorcess, legal bondage, agreements, contracts, etc., are other matters which are ruled by the seventh house. 7th house shows break of journey. The third house signifies short journeys and the ninth house denotes
long journeys. The seventh house indicates visits to various places in one and the same trip.

One's influence in foreign countries and the honour and reputation achieved there, depends on the planet in the 7th house and the aspect it receives.

The first house denotes longevity while the 7th house opposes and is a maraka house ; i.e., danger to longevity. Houses 8, .3 and 1 influence longevity and one has to examine these three houses to determine whether one will be long-lived, or will live upto the middle age, or only up to the adult age, or die in infancy. The twelfth house to any bhava is said to be negation of that particular bhava, that is to say, it spoils the matters signified by that bhava. Therefore the houses 7, 2 and 12 which are respectively in 12 to houses 8, 3 and 1 prove inimical to longevity and are so termed 'marakasthanas'.

In prasna or Horary Astrology, this house answers queries relating to the recovery of lost property, describes the thief, pickpockets, etc. The lagna represents the owner of stolen property. The fourth bhava denotes the place of the stolen article.
 The 7th shows thief. The 8th bhava being 2 to the 7th indicates the thief's wealth. So when the planet in 7 or the lord of 7 is eclipsed or weak, the thief will be caught.

The lagna represents one's routine life and thereby permanent place of residence ; the seventh house which is the opposite to it shows change of residence. One ought to see the seventh house as well as the third for the change of residence. «

In Mundane or Political Astrology, the seventh house is considered in matters pertaining to international relationships and arbitration ; war and foreign affairs, international trade general condition of women and laws relating to marriage and divorce, public reaction to national policies, public meetings, etc. Westerners call this the house of open warfare and enmity as well as of treaties and alliances.

The seventh house is also regarded as dealing with the native's third brother or sister. The third house from the lagna indicates the first younger brother or sister ; the house which is the third to the third shows the second younger brother ; the seventh house which is the third to the 5th house represents the third younger brother or sister. It is also the house of self-acquisition of the native's servant or employee, being the 2nd house counted from the 6th representing servants. Because the 5th house shows the first child or conception, the 7th which is the 3rd to the 5th represents the first child's younger brother or sister or the native's second child ; the 9th denotes the third child and so on in this manner.

Being in 4 to the 4th house indicating mother, the 7th house deals with mother's immovable property, vehicle, etc. According to Uttara Kalamritam, the 7th house rules the adopted child. This is understandable because one who is issueless may take his younger
brother's child in adoption. This is not uncommon.

The seventh house also denotes the secret enemy's danger, difficulties, death etc., being in 8 to the 12th house ; the religion, long journeys, higher education of friends or elder brother being the 9th
reckoned from the 11th house ; the honour and credit of the Governments being in 10 to 10 ; associates and friends of father being the 11th house to the 9th.

The native might enter into partnership With his father's friend.

Eighth House :

Mangalyasthana ; Ashta (eight) ; Ayus (life, longevity); Adhi (mental pain) ; Parabhava (defeat or insult) ; Klesha (sorrow) ; Apavad ha scandal, ill- repute) ; Marana (death) ; Asuchi (impurity) Vinga (obstacle, impediment).

The eighth house is considered to have a direct bearing upon one's longivity or span of life in this world. In considering the question of longevity, it is necessary to take into account the ist and the.3rd houses also in addition to the 8th house.

The eighth house is also called the 'house of death' - after having lived the allotted span of life-and all that is related to death such as inheritance legacies, wills, insurance, gratuity, bonus etc. The lagna indicates incarnation; the eighth, disincarnation.
 Hindus consider the eighth house as the end of man's life in this world.

This house conveys whether it is a natural death or an unnatural one such as by drowning, fire, accident or suicide or to chronic diseases and whether it is a slow or sudden and violent death. The time of death is to be inferred with reference to houses 7 and 2 which are respectively in 12 to the 8th and 3rd houses after judging the bhadaka-sthanas,

First of all, it should be seen whether the horoscope promises, short, medium, or long life. If the horoscope shows long life, an evil aspect formed to the 8th house or the planets connected with it by progression or by transit when the native is in his youth will not bring about death. It may be ill-health. It may temporarily set in and when the period or sub- period of a beneficial planet showing vitality and immunity follows, the native will fully recover. Or the native may experience other disturbing events denoted by the eighth house. He may, for instance, feel worried due to his father getting hospitalised. The 8th house is the 12th to the 9th house representing father. Thus should one proceed.
 When the eighth house is occupied by the lord of lagna, or the planet in 8 happens to be posited in the constellation of the lord of lagna, or the lord of 8 is in conjunction with the lord of lagna, the indication is that the native himself will be the cause of his own death. If the lord of the 3rd house, occupying the 8th house, his in the constellation of the lord of 12, the native's younger brother or sister may be the cause of death to the native. If the 3rd house alone is connected, the death may happen during travel in a nearby locality. If the 12th house is connected, the death may take place in a nursing home, asylum, sanatorium or in an unknown place. If the 11th house is connected, one may die in a friend's or elder brother's residence. If the 9th house is in any manner connected it is likely that the native may die in a far-off place or while going ona long journey.

Uranus connected with the 8th house is any may indicates strange and sudden death, death caused by explosion, death due to incurable diseases and so on.
 Also the disease may defy diagnosis and the native may die due to wrong treatment. Electrocution and death by lightning and electric shock are also portended.

Neptune inclines to a mysterious death, death after being in a state of coma or unconsciousness, or due to an overdose of drugs or allergy, etc. Death may also be caused by gas, drowning, poison, etc. If the 8th house falls in a watery sign, death may happen by drowning.

Saturn gives a liability to death due to colds.
rheumatism, bone troubles and chronic diseases. It denotes a slow and lingering death.

Jupiter generally gives a peaceful and natural death. But if afflicted by evil aspects from other planets, then death may be due to blood poisoning, cancer, liver trouble or inflammation of the lungs.

Mars causes death due to shocks or accidents, fire epidemics and inflammations. It may by due to small pox or bladder troubles. Death may occur after a short and sudden attack of illness. If Mars is in a fiery sign at birth and is the significator of death, then the death may be caused by fire, or violence, or by mechanical instruments. If it is in a watery sign, then the native may get drowned and die. If Mars is posited in an airy sign, haemorrhage may be the cause of death.

The author of Sanketanidhi calls the eighth house as the house of mystery and misery. It has to do with misfortune and mental anxiety, sorrow and strife ; worries and privations, delay and dejection, disapointment and defeat, loss and obstruction, blame and ill-repute, accident, danger from enemies danger due to diseases and fear. Impediment and imprisonment, quarrels and fights, wrong actions, etc.
According to Ramadayalu, crossing a river, theft robbery, siege of a fort, fighting, etc., come under the domain of this house.

The financial status of the business or life partner ; that is to say the share of profit acuring to the native through the business partner or the dowry or other income derived through wife or husband is shown by the 8th.
No house is really evil. Benefics occupying any house improve the matters influenced by that house while malefics in any house cause destruction to the affairs signified by the bhava occupied. So say our wise sages. They have, no doubt, termed the eighth house as one of the dushthanas. It may be because the 8th house is the 2nd reckoned from the seventh, denoting the person with whom you transact any business. Since benefics in 8 indicate gain to the partner as is said by Mahadeva in Jataka Thatva the native may benefit by linking his fortune with another.

The 2nd house governs the native's self- acquisition whereas the eighth is related to his unearned wealth or share of profit.
The eighth house denotes surgeons, medical officers, health inspectors, slaughter houses, butchers, coroners and so on. Jupiter or Saturn, the two philosophical planets, occupying the eighth house, arouse in the native a deep interest for occultism and mystical subjects. Mercury, the planet of pure intellect in this position, denotes an enquiring mind concerning occult matters. One may be inclined to study hidden and metaphysical problem.

In questions relating to nation, the eighth house deals with public mortality, the death race, suicide, serious accidents, infection, flood, fire, famine, disease, earthquake, national calamity or gv:ef, financial relation with foreign countries, the nation's exports and imports, debts due from foreign countries, surrender or loss of territory to another country, public loans, debts and interest rates, deficit budget, estate duties, and public sales.

In Horary, Astrology, this house has to be referred to, for information relating to crossing of rivers, difficulties of journey, impenetrable or sufferings caused by enemies death, corruption, fight, disease and vulnerable or weak points (Prasnagnana).

The 4th house according to Uttara Kalamritam rules over hereditary property. The fourth house is the 8th house to the 9th denoting father. Normally the father's ancestral or unearned property passes on to the son after the father's death. Also the 8th house is the 12th house to the 9th house. The father may make investments which, after his death, accrue to the native.
It is the 5th house to the 4th indicating mother. Mother may gain byway of lottery, prize bond or in speculation if benefics are in the eighth house.

Ninth House
Nava (ninth) ; Acharva (guru or preceptor) ; Pithru (father) ; Subham (auspicious) ; Poorva bhagyam (previous luck) ; Pooja (worship); Tapas (penance) ; 
 Dharma (virtue) ; Pauthra (grandson) ; Japa (prayer 
 Daiva Upasana (spiritual inflation) ; Arya vamsa (noble family), Bhagya fortune).
This is the house of faith, wisdom and divine worship. It is considered to be an auspicious house as it shows one's fortune in the present life as a result of past actions. Luck being closely linked to merit, everyone will reap only the fruits of the acts done in the previous birth. So a look at the ninth ; house would enable one to know what 'bhagya' (fortune and prosperity) one has accumulated as a result of the meritorious deeds done in the previous birth.

Since the 9th house rules philosophy, religious and philosophical beliefs, if Jupiter, the philosophical planet, is in 9, well aspected, the native may be religious, devoted, orthodox, and kind hearted. Even
 Saturn in this position receiving favourable aspects makes one deeply religious, methodical and meditative. Jupiter or Saturn receiving good aspect from Sun or Mercury gives one intuition and forethought. He will be much esteemed in religious circles and will occupy coveted positions in religious and philanthropic institutions. But if these planets are adversely aspected, one is liable to go to extremes in religious and other matters.

All affairs concerning temples, churches, mosques, and all religious institutions including those
devoted to promoting the people's spiritual welfare, are to be ascertained from this house. Hindus have attributed to the 9th house pilgrimage to holy places, wells, circular reservoirs, sacrifices and charity.

The third house is the house of perception and learning ; the ninth is the house of intuition and pure reason. If the third house is concerned with ordinary mental inclinations, the ninth house is with higher education, higher knowledge and higher thought. The degree of knowledge one may develop - whether collegiate, academic, philosophical, religious, literary, artistic or scientific - is to be deduced from this house.
 The ninth house presides over research, invention, discovery, exploration, and submission of thesis.

Hindus attribute the 9th house to father because the ninth sign of the zodiac Dhanus (Sagittarius) is ruled by 'Guru' the Preceptor and spiritual teacher. In ancient times, the father was invariably the spiritual preceptor or guru of the children to whom he did initiate
 Brahma Upadesam and transmit his siddhis or psychic powers. Counting the 9th house as the ist. we find that the fifth therefrom indicates the native. Some persons advocate the fourth house and the tenth house for father. It is incorrect. Always take the 9th house for father.
To this house is ascribed law, legal arbitration,

Spiritual initiation, teaching and everything connected to it, probably because the 9th sign of the zodiac is owned by the wise Jupiter. Hindus term the 9th as the house of dharma or virtue and of an occult and metaphysical mind,,
Dreams and visions come under the purview of this house ; also communications with spirits and the like. Neptune, the planets of dreams in the 9th, denotes peculiar dreams.

The 3rd and the 9th, indicate change or journey away from the permanent residence. The third house denotes short travels ; the ninth representing the wider mind, is related to long journey, sea Voyage, air travel, etc. It determines the amount of travel in far-off places or countries and the success achieved there.
Strangers and foreigners and also their relations come under the influence of this house.

The ninth house governs publishing, especially volumes of intrinsic value especially those relating to religion, science, law, philosophy, travel, international affairs, etc, in contra-distinction to the third house which relates to lighter reading, news and matters of ephemeral nature. One ought to seek information regarding one's success in such matters by an examination of the ninth house.

Association with good people, reverence and devotion to God and elders, the medicine most constitutionally suited, previous birth and punya and the blessings received from the family Deity are to be divined from this house. 'Providential Help' is due to the occupation of benefic planets in the ninth bhava or because the ninth lord is favourably placed. In Satya

Samhita the author says that the rest house and favour from others are to be investigated from the ninth house.
In State Astrology the ninth house relates to all forms of long distance travel and communications such
as 'sea voyage and all kinds of shipping long distance air and land travel ; also, legal departments judges, matters relating to religion, temples, churches, etc., religious and philosophical thought in the nation science, and text-book publishing, universities and those connected with them, emigration and immigration, import and export of the nation, national trade and commerce, short-wave radio and long distance communications, cables and wireless.
One is to judge the following matters from the 9th house, says Kalidasa :-
Charity : virtue ; visits to holy places ; association with good people ; Vedic sacrifice ! good conduct ; purity of mind, reverence to elders ; penance ; medicinal, drug ; one's policy ; God worship ; acquisition of higher learning ; dignity, mythology ; moral study ; long travel ; ancestral property ; horses ; elephants and buffaloes (connected with religious purposes) ; coronation hall and circulation of money.
According to Bhattotpala in Prasnagnana, wells, lakes, tanks, water-sheds, temples, monetary vows, pilgrimage and meritorious deeds are to be judged with reference to the ninth house.

The ninth house governs short travels of the wife or husband of the business partner being the third reckoned from the 7th house ; the servant's vehicle and landed property being the 4th from the 6th house ; the child's speculative benefits and pleasures being the 5th to the 5th house mother's illness, her, servants etc., being the 6th to the 4th house ; younger brother's
wife or the younger sister's husband or his or her competitors, rivals, etc, being the 7th counted from the 3rd house. It is the house of friends to the elder brother and indicates the elder brother's accomplishments being the 9th to the 10th house.

Tenth House :
The applications applied to the 10th bhava are :
Madhya ; Meshurana ; Jeevana (livelihood) ; 
 Rajaspadada (kingdom) ; Sat (good) ; Kriya (work) ; 
 Vyapara, commerce, trade, business) ; Jaya (success), ASpada (rank or position) ; Achara (good conduct); Mana (honour); Kriyam (sacrifice) ; Agya ; 
 Ajna (command) ; Guna (quality) ; Artha (Wealth) ; 
 Gamana (gait) ; Gnana (wisdom ); Pravrithi (inclination) Karma occupation).

The Midheaven or angle of the south, whose line or cusp the Sun touches at midday at noon at every place on the Earth is termed the Medium Coeli or the 10th house. Hence it is the chief or supreme angle of the heavens.
In astronomical calculations, the 10th house is a principal feature as all arcs of directions to the angles are measured from the Right Ascension of the 
 Midheaven ; in astrological predictions. it is the most important, being related to all matters affecting one's name, fame, honour and recognition.

Both Western and Hindu astrologers over that planets are very powerful when they occupy any of the houses 1 or 4 or 7 or 10. These four houses are known
as angular or kendra houses, in the horoscope and are considered to yield great strength. Planets occupying any of these are said to be endowed with full expression power, to do what they indicate by nature as well as by lordship of houses in the chart. 
 Houses 2, 5, 8 and 11 are called succedent or panaphara houses and planets herein are not so powerful as those in angular or kendra houses but possess moderate strength. The weakest of all in influence are the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th houses termed cadent or apoklima houses. A planet placed in a cadent house is supposed to have the least expressive power. 
 One may, for instance, lack suitable opportunities at needed times, on matter what may be his merit or skill. 
 The angular succedent and cadent houses respectively correspond to movable, fixed and common signs of the zodiac in power and influence.

The 10th house is described as the house of lordship, honour, dignity and public esteem. If is aptly called the apex of the horoscope, since it denotes man's worldly attainments achieved through name and fame, power and prestige, credit and conduct, success and status, rank and renown, respect and reputation, and ambition and authority. One's public life and popularity, his worldly standing in terms of material responsibility and his connection with people in high position should be judged from an examination of the strength of the 10th house, the occupants of the 10th house and those in their constellations (nakshathra), lord of the 10th house and those in his constellations and the planets conjoined with the 10th lord and those aspecting the 10th house. All questions concerning
one's worldly activities and moral responsibilities are determined with reference to this house.

The 10th house presides over preferment or one's inclination permanency, promotion advancement appointment etc., and shows how one acquires superiority or affluence - whether by being engaged in independent pursuits or business or in professional service, or by occupying an exalted elective office or appointment.

The chief influence of the 10th house is profession, occupation or business. One cannot arrive at a judgement in regard to what pursuits one will follow from an examination of the 10th house alone. In this aspect, house 2, 6 and 10 have to be investigated and studied together. These three houses are called the material trinity of houses, principally because they correspond to the 2nd, 6th and 10th signs of the zodiac which are earthy signs representing material gains. In day-to-day life it is not unusual to find people who follow avocations for which they have neither the requisite aptitude nor the qualification required. (Indeed, people have no choice in choosing their vocation). There are others who change their occupation several times.
 Some others carry on two or more different lines of activity at the same time. In the vast majority of cases, one is forced to take to a particular vocation not because of any interest in it or any particular liking but solely for monetary gain. Mantreswara in 
 Phaladeepika fittingly uses the expression "Pravritti" in connection with the 10th house. Therefore the 10th house may be taken as designating one's preferment in this respect for improvement. The 6th house shows
service, routine monotonous work and drudgery carried on by one under force of circumstances whether he likes or not The 2nd house indicates the outcome of one's labour in monetary advantage : self- acquisition.

If Neptune occupies the 10th house with good aspect from other planets, the native will fit well in occupations where secrecy mystery and inspiration are employed, such as secret service, inspirational writing, singer, musician, artist, etc. Neptune is called the Sea God and so one may have connections with sea and related industries. When Neptune in 10 is will dignified, it portrays a highly inspirational nature making the native capable of attaining honour and position through someunique achievement. It threatens danger to the life of one of the parents.
 Unfavourable aspects to Neptune denote disgrace, discredit and scandal, deserved or otherwise.

Uranus is said to be independent, erratic, eccentric, unconventional but original by nature. If it is posited in 10 and is aspected well, one will originate new plans of work and follow uncommon pursuits and come out successful. It Mercury indicates talent,
 Uranus denotes genius. Many Inventors, reformers, explorers, astrologers and great scientists are born with Uranus in 10. Uranus rules suddenness and so 
 Sudden changes in occupation are indicated. Being bold, independent and changeful, One invites opposition from public and Government-bodies. 
 Uranus afflicted denotes discredit and reverses and extraordinary experiences in public or professional affairs.

The slow and sluggish Saturn in to well dignified by sign position and favourably aspected causes one to rise by slow steady and patient industry. There is however liability to interruption and delay. Unless
 Saturn is strong by sign and aspect, it inclinesto a subordinate position generally. Affliction to Saturn brings public discredit. The native may possess merit but lacks opportunities and encounters impediments in business and disapointment in professional matters are denoted especially when Saturn's period or sub period is in operation. Good and bad aspects to 
 Saturn show a good rise and sudden fall.

The benevolent Jupiter well connected to the 10th house is a definite indication of high honours and favour of those in high position. Jupiter being the planet of justice and high morals, one's moral standard will be high. He will earn through right means. This is a very good testimony for political, social and financial success. Depending on other considerations, it denotes positions such as judges, trustees, ministers ambassadors, philosophers, stock brokers, bankers, merchants, etc. It includes all positions of distinction, trust and responsibility. If afflicted one may occupy subordinate positions in banks, courts, etc., or serve as a cashier.

The militant Mars in 10 well dignified with good aspects, gives one energy and enterprise, force and courage and good executive ability. One will be well qualified to captain any industry or conduct and business, especially if Mars were in a movable sign.
 The native succeeds best in martial occupations where
fire, iron or sharp tools are used in a skilled manner. 
 Mars being the planet of inexhaustible energy and enterprise will, if well fortified, make the native fit in lines where courage or daring is necessary or where skill is combined with muscular energy. If Man is afflicted, one will exhibit excessive ambition, authority, arrogance and aggressiveness and invite opposition and incur disfavour.

If the mutable Mercury happens to be in 10 success in commision business or agencies and in trading may be expected. All mental and occult occupations will be fruitful. Mercury points to plurality and one may engage oneself in several occupations at a time. One may be a rolling stone changing occupations often. Generally, one succeeds in a subordinate capacity as Mercury is a messenger and not a master. One may be employed in Engineering,
 Postal Communication, Export, Import, International 
 Trade are connected with any of these as a contractor or supplier.

The passive and peaceful Venus, placed in the 10th with good aspect from other planets, is a sure indication of good will and patronage among ladies and success in social, artistic or musical pursuits.
 Popularity, is acquired more by affable and good humoured nature than by merit. Venus has sway over those occupations which deal with artistic refined and entertainment matters and with all those businesses where women's needs are catered for success in such professions or occupations is a certainty.

The dignified Sun, unafflicted by any, is the surest sign of success, honour, distinction, authority, power,
prosperity, high patronage and public support. It assures success in Governmental circles. One's credit is secure and success in steady in whatever profession, occupation or business he may be engaged in. Through the favour of superiors one will rise and occupy positions of trust and responsibility. 
 He will be esteemed by the community and honoured by election to a high public office. Sun being a dependable planet he can be depended upon to justify the confidence reposed in him. One will be honest and upright in dealings and possess a good moral standard. Sun rules, among other things over security of service, medicine and Government. If afflicted one may be pompous and vainglorious may exhibit wealth of power and find difficulty in enlisting favour.

The inconstant Moon is said to rule the general public and so her position in the 10th house is a favourable indication for Public life, but Moon being changeful in nature several changes an public life are also shown. If aspected will, it brings the person prominently before the public and ensures their favour but popularity is generally unstable. There is the liability to fluctuation in business, occupation or profession.
 Moon indicates changes and voyages an so one may have many changes in connection with profession, etc, or be engaged in professions or occupations which demand traveling about, especially if the Moon were in a movable sign Moon rules public commodities, shipping, traveling and affairs connected with common people and women and if it is aspected well, it denotes success in professions concerning these.

If afflicted, public scandal and censure are not ruled out.

The tenth house is termed 'karmasthana'. It includes doing the last rites to one's parents, to do religious functions, yagnas etc., and to work and make money. Sometimes is a coincidence that, at the very time when one gets advancement one also loses either of the parents. The 10th house is the 2nd to the 9th house denoting father and the 7th house to the 4th indicating mother. Houses 2 and 7 are marakasthanas or death. Inflicting houses and so it is not unusual that during the period or sub period of the planets connected with the 10th house one advances in business, profession or occupation and at the same time loses one of the parents.

The 10th house has reference to the employer, superior, master in trade or profession, judge and the
 Government.
Being the 2nd house to the 9th representing father, it is said to govern patrimony or one's inheritance. The 8th house suggests one's unearned income; the 4th house is the 8th to the 9th representing father. Hindus refer to the 4th house for hereditary income which descends to one from ancestors. By reflexion, the 10th house also governs these.
The 10th house is called 'Agya' and rules orders or command and issued.
The 9th house governs long journeys, while the 10th is related to pilgrimage to holy places.

In Uttara Kalamritam, Kalidasa elucidates that all information regarding trade, prosperity, honour from
 Government, honourable living, permanence, pre-
eminence, seal of authority, horse riding, athletics, service, sacrifice and the like, agriculture, doctor, name, fame, depositing a treasure, talisman, morality, medicine, thigh, prosperity, adopted son, teaching, intellect to command and mantras are to be sought for through the 10th bhava.
The author of Jatakadesamarga avers that it is through the 10th house that one ought to divine's about one's honour, profession, dignity position or rank.

Bhattotpala has declared in Prasnagnana that the 10th house has to be seen in matters concerning kingdom, seal of authority, great religious merit, position ; utility and rain and such other things pertaining to the sky.
Vaidyanatha Dikshitar mentions that one will get a due to one's authority, honourable rank, ornaments, apparel, activities, agriculture, retirement from the world, beneficent acts sanctioned in the scriptures, means of livelihood, fame, knowledge of the special arts and learning generally from the 10th bhava, its owner, the Sun, Mercury, Jupiter and 
 Saturn.
Ramadayulu In Sanketanidhi opines that one's occupation, family, happiness, etc., should be deduced from a look at the 10th house. He further says that one's meritorious deeds, trade, occupation, livelihood, administrative appointment, happiness, position, action and sraddhas to ancestors are to be ascertained from this house. According to him the two knees and the back bone of a person are governed by the 10th house.
In Satya Samhita, tile author inclines to the view that the 10th house has to be examined in order to find out one's worldly standing, rank and eminence as well as association with virtuous people.
Prityusas, son of Varahamihira, asserts, that all information pertaining to one's occupation and living and all about one's valour, prowess, learning and fame and all seen and heard about a person are to be ascertained through this house.

In horary questions, this house concerns the judges, Judgment and the substances taken away by the thieves (being the 4th to the 7th denoting the thief).
The 10th house stands for the stewards and their president in the race clubs, the aristocracy of the owners of the horses and the trainers.

In Mundane or political astrology, the 10th house deals with Government in a general sense, its affairs and its chief executive. It signifies the head of the
 State, whether monarch or President. Also royalty, the party in office, the national leaders, the upper strata of society and those in authority, eminent and distinguished persons and the aristocracy. It governs national trade, the nation's honour, integrity, credit, power and status among the community of nations. This house provides the clue to guess the political situation prevailing in the country at any time.

The 10th house signifies father's self-acquisition being the 2nd reckoned from ‘the 9th. It is also the maraka house to both father and mother; to father, because it is in 2 to 9 and to mother because it is In 7
to 4. Being the 4th counted from the 7th house, it shows the permanent possessions or conveyance of the business or married partner. It rules the speculative and pleasurable pursuits of servants and their children, being the 5th from the 6th denoting servants. As the 10th house happens to be the 6th house taking the 5th as the first, it portrays ill-health to children or the debts incurred by them. Since it is the 7th to the 4th, it refers to mother's opponents in litigation, election, etc. 
 Danger to younger brother or sister, his or her legacies, etc, are described by the 10th house which is the 8th house counted from the 3rd. It is the house of loss and secret inimical activities to one's eider brother or one's dear friends and their hospitalisation.

Eleventh House
The terms used to refer to the 11th bhava are:
Ekadasa ; Labha (profit or gain) : Aya (income or all kinds of receipts) ; Agamana (acquisition) ; Apti (gain) ; Prapthi (what is unto one) ; Kama (desire, passion) ; Siddhi (fulfilment of one's desire) ; Vibhava (wealth or riches) ; Slaghyata, (veneration, conunendation) ; Sarasa (anything juicy or succulent).
Both the oriental and occidental astrologers are unanimous in describing the 11th house as the house of friends. It stands for all those who are allied to the native by likeness or sympathy of interest in society, community, etc. It includes one's favourites, flatterers admirers, associates, advisers, adherents, supporters, well-wishers and close acquaintances (casual acquaintance is shown by the third house. Therefore it is necessary to fix attention on the 11th bhava to find out the sort of friends one will acquire.
Houses 9, 10, 11 and 12 are termed Dharrna, 
 Artha, Kama and Moksha house. "Kama" should not be construed to mean only passion. It also shows desire. 'Siddhi' signifies fulfilment. From the 11th house should be resolved all questions concerning one's hopes, wishes and aspirations and their realisation. The 11th house governs success in all undertakings, Whether it be in profession or business, higher studies or foreign collaboration, election, litigation, speculation, writings, health, etc. Suppose one is engaged in litigation at the time when he is running the conjoined periods of the planets favourably connected to the 11th house. He will then come out successful, mostly by compromise, even though his case may be weak, as the 11th house stands for lasting friendship and gains.

The 11th house is most commonly referred to as ‘Labhasthana' denoting profit or gain. It is through this house that every accumulation of incoming wealth is to be expected. One may earn by one's own exertion Which is indicated by the lagna. His self- acquisition is determined by the 2nd house. Earnings through short writings, agency, writings, younger brother, etc., are shown by the third house. Money received through mother, vehicles, immovable property, treasure, etc., is described by the 4th. Gains in speculation, sports, lottery amusement interests like cinema, drama, etc., and through children are governed-by the 5th house. 6th house denotes income through service, pet animals or by borrowing. Income accruing to one through business partnerships, wife or husband, litigation,, etc. is indicated by the 7th house. The 8th
house has to do with insurance, provident fund, wills, legacies, etc. One may derive monetary advantage through foreign collaboration, contact with strangers, father, or by doing research which is the influence of the 9th house. Lastly, one's income through profession, business or inheritance is indicated by the 10th house. 
 The 12th house of a horoscope shows all expenses, investments and withdrawal or money from bank. 
 Therefore houses 1 to 10 put together describe the various sources of one's income; the 12th house deals with expenses. Adding the income resulting from house 1 to 10 and deducting the expenses indicated by the 12th house, one gets the net balance called profit. This is what is shown by the 11th house.

If one has lent money to someone, then the principal and interest are ruled by the 11th house. On the other hand, if one has borrowed then the 5th house deals with discharge of debt. Why? Because the 5th house is the 11 house Counted from the 7th house which denotes the person from whom the money has been borrowed.

So good aspects to the significators connected with the 11th house signify return of the capital and interest by the person who has taken money on loan and, on the same analogy, favourable aspects to the planets beneficially connected to the 5th house connote that the native will pay back the amount taken on loan together with interest thereon.

The 11th house presides, among other things, over pleasure, prosperity, profit, progress in attempts, peace after achievement of aspirations, partnership and permanent tie of friendship.
The desire to have reunion is denoted by this house and so one has to investigate this house to infer what sort of emotional attachments one will have. In fact, the lover is more accurately ascertained from the 11th house rather than from the 7th. This is so, as the 11th house stands for lasting friendship and intimacy that may end in marriage. One may also live with pleasure with a member of the opposite sex without actually contracting marriage. The 7th house shows one to whom one is bound by ties of legal bondage and not necessarily a lasting friendship. If the significators connected to the 7th house and 11th house are favourably disposed, one may be so fast as to favour a successful marriage. In matters concerning marriage, the 11th house should also be a factor along with houses 2 and 7.

One has to investigate the 11th house to ascertain how far one will succeed in social and financial matters and whether at all he will succeed.
 The 11th house reflects the native's attitude towards society and his interest more for group advantage as distinct from personal aims and ambitions. It also relates to reformative and unconventional activities.

Another important feature coming under the domain of the 11th house is progeny or rearing of children. The 5th house, chiefly, deals with children. By reflex action, the 11th house which is the opposite of the 5th is connected. Ramadayalu in
 Sanketanidhi provides support for this interpretation when he says that any bhava and its 7th will always have similar aims to be carried out. He clearly elucidates in Sloka 106 that the good or bad effects from the 11th hOuse will
be the same as the effects of the planets posited in the 5th and vice versa. Not only this, the 11th also happens to be the 5th counted from the 7th ruling the married partner.

The 11th house governs elder brother or sister and so all information in this respect is indicated by the 11th. One should pay attention to the 11th house, the planets connected with it, its lord, etc., and judge accordingly.

The 11th house indicates "Trusts". It also denotes the financial affairs of the employer or those in command over the native, being the 2nd to 10th house.

In the physical body, it has domain over the left car, the the right foot, the left hand and the two shanks.

Vaidyanatha Dikshita suggests that one should look to the 11th bhava to find out accumulation of incoming wealth. He emphatically declares that the planet occupying the 11th bhava, when strong, is capable of bringing prosperity and wealth.

Varahamihira refers to this house as ‘Aya’ denoting one's income. He avers that the 11th house is one of the improving houses or upachayasthanas. That even malefics placed in upachaya houses (3, 6, 10 and 11) prove auspicious and bring profit and pleasure, is the saying of the sages.

Mahadeva in Jataka Tatva calls the 11th house as 'Labhasthana’. It indicates gains which accrue to a person the nature of such gain being dependent on the nature of the planet connected. Is it is a benefit,
one will acquire wealth by fair means and by pursUit of right actions. It the planet therin be a malefic, one may earn by unfair means even. If the planets connected are both, malefic and benefic, then in their respective periods or sub periods one will resort to foul or fair methods, as the case may be, to attain one's objectives. Mahadeva also feels that the 11th house has to be seen to determine the type of vehicles one will have.

Kalidasa mentions in Uttara Kalamritam that the following are to be deduced from the 11th house.
Realisation of one's wishes and desires ; acquisition of wealth, profit in every undertaking ; varieties of income ;one's influence, dependency, eldest brother, paternal uncle, undesirable nature (if afflicted), worship of deities and of the virtuous ; devotion to God ; respect to elders, gain of knowledge (10th stands for jnana ; 11th is the 2nd from the 10th) ; high level of intelligence ; the welfare of the employer ; loss of interest on one's capital ; possession of costly metals, ornaments, etc.; advising others ; luck ; easy gains ; brother-in-law ; mother's longevity (8th to the 4th house) ; left ear ; the knee ; attractive painting and arts ; sarasa (juicy articles) ; hearing some pleasing and delightful music or happy news ; ministership ; dawn of fortune ; and longevity.

In Jataka Chandrika, it has been declared that the 11th house is the bhadhakasthana for persons born 'in movable sign (char rasis). For those at whose births the fixed signs (sthira rasis were ascending, the 9th house is the bhadhakasthana and for those born with
common sign (ubhayas rasi) in their Ascendant, the 7th house is the bhadhakasthsna. For all natives, the 7th and 2nd houses are marakasthanas or death- inflicting houses, being respectively in 12 to the 8th and 3rd houses representing longevity and in opposition to the 1st and the 8th houses. One should not go by the literal meaning of the 'bhadhakasthana' and conclude that it evil in every respect, 'Bhadhakasthana' applies only to longevity and health. It has to be understood that during the period or sub period of the planet owning the bhadhakastharya or of the planet connected with the bhadhakasthana, whichever is the stronger of the two, one may suffer from ill-health or there may be anxiety in regard to one's health. If, according to the indications at birth, one is destined to live long one will survive the period or sub period of the planets . connected with the bhadhakasthana and only enjoy the beneficial results related to the 11th house. If one has lived the allotted spun of life and his death is drawing near, the planets in the bhadhakasthana or its lord will operate at that time to put an end to life.

Ramadayalu in Sankethanidhi, in discussing the 11th house, makes it clear that all matters pertaining to right foot, left hand one's knowledge, income, wealth, good actions, horses, elephants, vehicles, chariots, furniture, ornaments, clothing, swinging cradles. beauty festivity decoration, etc., are to be ascertained from this bhava. He adds that a respectful offering, sovereign, money, daughters, friends, cattle and good effects come under the purview of the 11th bhava.

The author of Jatakadesamarga express the opinion that attainment of efforts, desire and absence of misery are to be predicted through the 11th bhava.

Bhattotpala ascribes elephant riding, horse riding or elephants, horses and conveyances, clothing, crops, jewels, wisdom and wealth to the 11th bhava and says that one should guess every information about these from it.

Sun in 11 is an indication of lofty actions and desires and success in realising them. One may associate with men in power and high position who will remain firm honourable and steadfast in friendship.
 The native is sure to reap immense benefit through them. It is a good position for social success, provided other testimonies lend support.

Jupiter in this house shows that one's friends will be wealthy, virtuous, true and influential and render all assistance. Social success, popularity and credit will be secured through friendship. One's ambitions will be achieved and hopes realised in full, Jupiter's situation here with good aspects from others connotes social, financial and political success. If jupiter is afflicted, then the friends may be sincere in their desire to help but will lack the ability to fulfill it or they may serve their self-interest by such friendship.

Mercury in 11 draws many acquaintances among literary and scientific minded people, but Mercury being mutable by nature, non of them will be sufficiently. steadfast in their affections, unless Mercury is aspected well. If afflicted, one should not place any reliance on friends for assistance nor should he stand surety to them.

Moon in 11, receiving harmonious aspects, shows a large circle of friends, especially among the female folk, patronage of women and social success and popularity. Moon is changeful by nature and so one will have few lasting attachments unless Moon was well aspected at birth by planets in fixed signs or Moon itself was in a fixed sign. If afflicted, those extending their hand of friendship will do so with the ulterior motive of deriving benefits from the native.

Saturn in 11, well dignified by occupation and aspect, attracts aged and serious friend. One may contract friendship with those in subordinate positions
 Saturn shows constriction ; Jupiter, expansion, 
 Therefore Saturn in 11 shows few friends while Jupiter indicates a large number of friends. If Saturn is afflicted, one should be-careful with aged people who would make use of the native for selfish ends and desert him when he is no longer of any use to them. 
 Saturn is a planet of limitation and restriction and its position in the 11th house does not augur well ; for it portrays delay in the achievement of ambitions even when well aspected. When one follows dasa bhukti system, the beneficial Saturn will give the favourable results in its sub period and Saturn will not allow other planets to offer such results in their sub periods which precede Saturn.

Mars in 11 brings friends among the martial and athletic class. If well dignified, one works ‘courageously and enthusiastically to realise one's desires leaving no stone unturned till success is sure. If afflicted, it makes one touchy and sensitive towards his friends.
 Mars is an. ambitious planet and if afflicted one, is
likely to over-reach himSelf in his desires and suffer consequently. If Mars is afflicted, it causes impulsiveness and rashness thereby denoting disagreement with friends. If Saturn or Mercury afflicts violation of friendship and treachery is indicated. If 
 Sun, Jupiter or Mercury aspect unfavourably friends may offer wrong advice landing one in trouble, Venus (or) Moon afflicting indicates over-indulgence with friends, especially female companions.

Venus in 11, favourably aspected, portrays friendship with those of the opposite sex and those in social circles who will be ever ready to assist one in realising his desires. One's friends may be humane and sympathetically and artistically .inclined. This position of Venus favours a fruitful marriage. The 11th house shows fondness for society and Venus is said to be a social planet and so its situation here is conductive to success in social affairs. Afflictions to
 Venus often show that one's friends may prove to be ambitious and time-serving and throw the native aside when opportunity offers.

Uranus in 11 is a strong influence to bring about strange, sudden and remarkable friendships. One will
associate with those who are original, creative, or inventive who will prove immensely helpful to the native in case Uranus was well aspected at birth. Uranus being a progressive planet one's hope will be progressive and peculiar. If affliction occurs, friends will turn out to be foes all of a sudden.

Neptune in 11, well aspected. gives a person high spiritual aspirations and will gift him with the ability
to attract other persons of like‘nature who may aid him in realising his ambitions. If afflicted, then those who pose as friends may prove deceptive and treacherous. 
 Those with this position of Neptune afflicted, should be careful in cultivating friendships.

In Political Astrology, the 11th house is said to indicate Parliament or equivalent legislative branches in other Governments. It rules the Lok Sabha, the
 Lower House of State Assemblies, Corporations, 
 Municipal Bodies, District Boards, Panchayats and similar legislative bodies. It also bears relation to the parties, legislation, governmental policies and planning. It is related to international friendships and exchange of amenities among nations. It deals with companies, stores, governning bodies, associations, etc., and all institutions where group- interest is involved. It represents the wealth and money or the ‘exchequer’ or the Government and the friends and allies of the nation.

In horse racing, it denotes the management of the committee under the control of the stewards. The number of the winner is shown by this house.

In market forecasting, this house is taken for
 Government loans electric companies, gas, museum, agriculture, estate, irrigation, silk, etc.

In Horary Astrology, as in Natal Astrology this house is connected with hopes and desires and their fulfilment. if the 11th house is afflicted, the querist will suffer severe disapointment in the matter examination.
Being the 2nd from the 10th, it shows the financial gain derived from occupation. It rules over father's short journeys gain through correspondence, editing, publishing his younger brother or sister, etc., being the 3rd counted from the 9th. It indicates the termination of a will or legacy being the 4th reckoned from the 8th house. The 11th house concerns birth of children being the 5th from the 7th ; also partner's pleasurable pursuits, speculation, etc. It shows recovery from ill- health and victory over enemies, being the 6th reckoned from the 6th representing ill-health, enemies and debts. As it is 7th house from the 5th, it signifies the daughter-in-law, the children's competitors in examination, etc. Being the 8th to the 4th, it stands for danger, difficulties, disapointment and even death of the mother. To younger brother or sister represented by the 3rd it is the 9th house and hence is related to her / his long journeys in connection with education, etc. It is the house of success to elder brother or sister if well fortified. It also signifies freedom from misery and pain and discharge from hospital being in 12 to the 12th house.

Twelfth House
The expressions ascribed to the 12th bhava are :
Anthyabha (last house) ; Rippha ; lopasthana (house of disappearance) ; Bandha (bondage) ; 
 Vigama Vyaya (loss, negation) ; Sayana (bed) ; Papa (sin) ; Daridrya (poverty, penury) ; Suchaha (tale bearer, backbiter) ; Kshaya (loss, decline) ; Dukkha (misery) ; Vama nayana (left eye) ;Anghri (leg).

According to our ancients, the first eight houses of the horoscope indicate 'I kaloka sukham' or worldly pleasures and pains while the last four, namely houses 9, 10, 11 and 12 denote ‘Para Loka
 Sadhanam' or spiritual welfare. The last four houses are accordingly called Dharma, Artha, Kama and 
 Moksha houses. The 12th house rules man's final emancipation from the chain of births and deaths and his merger with the Cosmic Soul, Divine worship and the future state of existence are determined from the 12th bhava.

The 12th house shows loss and impediments, restraint and limitation, waste and extravagance, expenses outweighing income and drudgery and deception. Hindu sages have averred that the ownership of houses 6, 8 and 12 which are termed ‘Dus sthanas' is productive of evil. No house is unfortunate or evil, unless afflicted, and this is true of the 12th house too ;

Each house holds sway over certain distinct affairs and when it is afflicted, one cannot expect matters signified by it to manifest fully. Such contrary results will be experienced only when the native runs the period or sub period of the planet afflicting the house under consideration and on the days, nakshathras and lagnas ruled by it and not otherwise.
 When the period or sub period of the planet which is beneficially connected to the house under consideration follows, there is bound to be improvement in the matters denoted by that house.

R.C. Smith, popularly known as the first Raphael, emphatically declares that evil planets in the 12th house are far less evil than when angular.

The 12th house deals, among other things, with loss, expenses, purchases, investments, donations, charity and association with philanthropic institutions.
 For instance, one may Purchase costly jewels if the planet connected has anything to do with the 2nd house, or incur expenses in connection with short 
 Journeys or writings and publications if the third house is connected. He may invest his money on landed or immovable property or go in for vehicle when the 12 house will be connected. Also he may be forced to spend on his mother going on a long travel the 12th house being the 9th from the 4th house. One may speculate and lose or take up an insurance policy for his children's education or marriage and may be paying premia if the 5th house has any relation. 
 Therefore, there are various sources through which one may spend.

If one has borrowed,then the 12th indicates repayment of loan. In Uttra Kalamritam it has been said that the 12th house has to be investigated for repayment of loan. Discharge of loan is to be determined not only from the 12th but also from the 8th house. The 6th house indicates borrowing in the native's horoscope and the 7th he who lends. The 6th house is the 12th to the person who has lent money represented by the 7th house. The native's 12th house is the 6th reckoned from the 7th and so has to do with discharge of debts. Suppose one has lent money to some one. In his horoscope the 7th house shows the person to whom the money has been lent. The 12th house of the native being the 6th reckoned from the 7th, indicates increase in income to the person denoted by the 7th house and to the extent
deterioration in the native's bank position. So one may lend money to some others and thus incur expenses. 
 Expenses are therefore incurred in various ways. 
 Whether such expenses will be pleasant and expected or unpleasant and unexpected,will depend upon the nature and lordship of the planets found in the 12th house or of the planets in any manner connected with the 12th house. Such results will come to pass only when the period or subperiod of the significators connected with the 12th house operate and not at all times. Furthermore, it is not the occupation'or lordship of the 12th house that matters most. What is more important is the constellation (nakshatra) in which a planet was posited in the 12th house and what house are owned by the constellation lord to that particular horoscope. A planet in the 12th house in the constellation of, say-lords of 2 and 9, portrays long journeys and separation from family and going to a place far removed from home.
Sorrow and sin, edition and segregation, obstacles and impediments in one's way, misery and misfortune, poverty and persecution, intrigue and imprisonment and secret toil of mind are some of the unfortunate matters coming under the influence of the 12th house.

The 12th house has also relation to fear and inferiority complex anxiety, misgiving, suspicion etc.
The house is known as the house of solitude, secret and silent suffering and self-undoing. The 6th house focusses on ordinary service or help given to others while the 12th represents profound service
rendered to mankind. The 12th house rules the extremities and shows the amount of freedom one enjoys and the degree to which one will be forced to submerge his own personality in his sub-servience or service to other people. More appropriately, it is the house of the greatest self-sacrifice and shows unselfish deeds unconsciously prompted by conscience probably as amends for wrong committed in the previous lives. It is through the 12th house that one has to decide all questions regarding one’ seclusion and social barriers, the limitations and restrictions in one's way and the unseen or unexpected troubles that he may suffer from.

The 6th house, according to our sages, is related, to inimical activity of an open nature, petty quarrels, etc., while the 12th house shows secret inimical activity. It would be illogical to ascribe to the 7th house one who is dearest to the native, namely married partner, and in the same breath call it as the house of open enemies. The 7th house stands for those who compete with the native in election, litigation, etc, but who are not unfriendly towards the native so that they cannot be dubbed as inimical.
The 12th house is the 4th house reckoned from the 9th which rules the higher mind. Counting inversely, it is the 4th house from the 3rd which is concerned with lower or ordinary mental processes.
 Therefore, the 12th house has to do with secret working of mind. It has a bearing with such things as secret plots and schemes, conspiracy and cunningness, envy and malice, fraud and treachery, intrigue and deception and suicide murder or assassination. It is also
connected with exile and extradition and matters concerning these.

Neptune has to do with secrecy, mystery, mediumship, psychic research and occult investigations and so Neptune's position here with good aspects from other planets bring success in matters carried on in secret. The native will be best fitted for detective work and will gain through secluded and quiet methods.
If afflicted, it gives a liability to confinement in hospital due to a chronic disease or insanity due to perverted practices or detention in prison or a public institution. Neptune being a secretive and deceptive planet. It shows that one will have many secret enemies. Also neferious schemes, deception, fraud, scandal, disgrace and secret sorrows are denoted. 
 One often lives in vague dread of some unknown danger.

Uranus occupying 12 and well aspected, tends to success through occult affairs and by the invention of chemical processes which remain secret in spite of being promoted by planet. If afflicted, it denotes danger from animals, accidents causing detention in out of the sight places, disgrace and troubles from psychic or occult sources, sudden illness defying diagnosis, restraint in public institutions and even exile from the country. One may face strange and sudden enmities. One will feel irritated and annoyed by the underhand actions of eccentric people.

Saturn, the planet of seclusion, placed in 12 and aspected well, points to success in seclusion or quiet
or laborious occupations. If saturn is possessed of strength by sign, position, etc., it shows that seclusion is self -invited.
Taken alone the position shows that secret enemies will steadily work for the down fall of the native. There is the likelihood of danger or contusions and bruises through animal. Saturn rules reserve and restriction and so one is inclined to prefer work in a quiet and peaceful way unnoticed by others.
If saturn is afflicted, some lingering illnesseto the partner is denoted, as it is the 6th house reckoned from the 7th If Mars seriously afflicts, there is the liability to danger of violence, robbery or even suicide. 
 Mercury rules the mental system and its affliction to 
 Saturn causes mental disorder; also loss by theft, etc.

Uranus in adverse aspect is a very bad indication as all the malefic matters mentioned in regard to the 12th house will come to the fore.

The benevolent and philanthropic Jupiter well aspected in the 12th house gives one gain and success through those occupations carried on in seclusion such as in asylums, hospitals, public or philanthropic institutions. It ensures success in places remote from the place of birth and with large animals.
 Jupiter in 12 enables one to eventually succeed over enemies and gain from them. Jupiter is expansivein nature and those having jupiter in 12 will be recipients of big aid from charitable institutions of a nature. If they are already rich, they will give away lavishly to those in need and to philanthropic
institutions.

Mars in 12 in dignity and well aspected makes one an administrator of an estate or in a public institution. Generally, Mars here causes grave trouble through impulse, loss of reputation or treachery from enemies or misplaced affection. If afflicted, it portends danger of violence enemies in a fight and danger of injuries through big animals. Mars has voice over violence and blood. T. ie 12th house is connected with big animals and beasts. So effusion of blood can be expected as a result of kicks or thrusts from animals provided there is affliction to Mars. This is suggested by way of a brief to the discerning students as how to blend the nature of the house and the characteristics of a planet and one should not rush to a conclusion "Oh! Mars is for violence and 12th house shows animals. So danger of violence through animals is denoted." If Mars is well dignified by sign position and connected with the Sun and the 10th house, one may serve as a surgeon in a hospital (Mars for surgery, sun for medicine). One's station in life should also be borne in mind before coming to a conclusion. If one were connected with a circus company dilly dallying before big and beauty animals and undergoing the on joint period of Mars in 12, weak by sign and by house ownership and the planet afflicting Mars, then one can expect danger of violence from animals and even death. In fact, in the horoscope of one gentleman connected with the circus, there were afflictions to
 Mars in 12 and on a certain day when he was playing with a lion in the circus ring, he was kicked and mauled by it.
Mars in 12, seriously afflicted by Saturn, may lead to imprisonment or illness caused by lingering
disease and confinement in a hospital for a long time. If a factory manager were to have Mars in this position, then he will have recurring labour troubles often and the labour class will secretly work for his downfall. 

 Venus in 12 well aspected, contributes to success in occupations connected with jails, hospitals or charitable institutions or by work in a chemical laboratory. One benefits by pursuing obscure occupations. He will be inclined to investigate the secret arts or study and practice the occult. Venus, the planet of love in this house, makes one love and enjoy voluntary seclusion. One finds pleasure in dealing with large animals like horses and one will love hunting. The 12th house indicates 'Suha sayanam'. So venus here with good aspects from others show comfort in bed. Generally, this position of Venus makes one go after the opposite sex and if Venus is afflicted it leads to enmity of women. Neptune or Uranus afflicting Venus suggests peculiar love affairs and sudden change of affections leading to sorrow, suspicion, disapointment and divorce. Saturn afflicting Venus is said to cause separation generally, while Mars makes one a moral wreck overindulging in passions. Suppose Venus is in the 12th house identical with Scorpio (Vrischika) and is afflicted, then it cannotes confinement in hospital due to disease caused by overindulgence of passions, as Scorpio rules the generative organs. Taurus also governs, by reflex action self-abuse. So Venus even if it occupies its own sign Taurus in the 12th house, will, if severely afflicted, force one to undergo hospital treatment for venereal complaints.

If Mercury is in this house, it gives a mind peculiarly suited to dwelve into the Mysteries and success in scientific or occult research. When well aspected by Mars and Saturn who are themselves dignified by occupation, one will be admirably suited to detective work. Mercury has to do with publicity, but the 12th shows limitations and so one is better fitted to out-of-sight work and in occupations requiring seclusion rather than sociability publicity. Mercury is an intellectual planet and will certainly give one the faculty to go into the most intricate to details in matters which seem trivial or microscopic to others.
 Harmonious aspect from Herschle enables one to pursue unusual lines of thought.
Take alone, Mercury here indicates petty worries, annoyance and small enmities caused by writings or scandalous reports, as Mercury rules correspondence. 
 The mind is self-absorbed and narrow.
If affilicted especially by malefics like Saturn or 
 Mars, it points to nefarious schemes, forgeries plots and conspiracies.

Sun in 12, dignified and well aspected, secures one success in occult and psychic matters and gives uncommon tastes. Sun is otherwise called Dhanwantari and so work in hospitals is favoured. One loves and succeeds in some quiet, secure but obscure occupation such as in chemical laboratory or in prisons or other institutions of confinment. Well aspected Sun is ¢ 12 is a sure sign of sympathies and self sacrifice and that one will use steadily out of obscurity but didnt of one's own merit and effort. Scholars say that Sun here vanquishes enemies.
Generally, Sun in 12, weak by sign an afflicted, shows enmity of influential people, life in remote places and separation from one's kith and kin.

Moon rules the public but its situation in this house of seclusion and solitude favour success in such work as it performed in hospitals, or prisons, provided it is well aspected. Moon is emotional inconstant and changeful and, consequently, there is a liability of the sense dominating reason involving one in clandestine love affairs, but, if Moon is in a fixed sign and well aspected, one well keep the secret to himself.
Moon rules voyage. If Moon is in a watery sign in 12, one may be connected with occupation concerning shipping, etc., This indication is strengthened if the 
 Moon is in conjuction with, or receives favourable aspect from Neptune, the Sea Lord.
Afflicted Moon in 12 signifies limitations, hindrances, fanciful fears, enforced retirement or sickness due to acts of indiscrimination; also petty enmities with womenfolk causing worry and trouble.
According to Haly. "it represents banished persons, male-factors, lost goods never recovered, long hidden wrath, vile persons, reproaches and disobedience,"

Adila and Zeal , two very ancient western astrologers, remark that the 12th house is the house of captives and imprisonment; the place of imprisonment and the person that is imprisoned.
The author of Phaladeepika calls this house ‘Leenasthana meaning a hidden house. The 12th
house has to be examined in matters concerning occultism and hidden side of life. Alan Leo observes thus: The 12th is related to the psychic mind in which receptivity or mental sensitiveness to the unseen world is awakened.Therefore it (the 12th house) is known as the house of self-undoing, which, in some cases, may mean the breaking up of the concrete physical condition by leaning towards the occult side of things. 
 It is the house of "One occultism". The 12th house, then, may denote sorrow in matters of an external purely physical type; trouble and difficulty in matters of an emotional character; annoyance,-worry and anxiety in matters intellectual or mental- but in this relation it may also bring joy and peace.

Mantreswara says that the 12th house rules 'Sayana’'. Therefore, one has to investigate this house to find out whether one will have sound sleep or not.The third house shows one's awakening from sleep, the 6th house signifies trance; the9th relates to dreams.
 Kalidasa alone differs in this respects. In Uttara 
 Kalamritam he says that the 12th house also indicates 'Nithra banga' or awakening from sleep or disturbance to sleep. If one runs the period of a malefic planets placed in 12 and afflicted by others, how can he expect a sound and peaceful sleep?
In Uttara Kalamritam it has been mentioned that the 12th house has to be referred to in connection with paternal wealth. This is probably so because the 4th indicates one's permanent possessions and the 12th house is the 4th from the 9th representing father and therefore denotes father's permanent possessions which may pass on to the native after the death of the
father. Moon is always for change and so one's father may change his residence because Moon in 12 will be in the 4th house counted from the 9th, and such changes will take place when the native runs Moon's period or sub period.

According to Kalidasa, one has to investigate the 12th house accounts for the following: Mental pain and agitation; the feet; the left eye; fear from enemies; mutilation of a limb; bodily injury; harm; wretchedness; imprisonment; angers; elephants; horse; loss by marriage and loss of wife; a blow to the thought of the happiness of parents or brothers; going to another place; liberation from pain; discharge of debts; paternal wealth; renouncing couch, termination of appointment, death, entry into heaven = and expenditure in various ways.
Vaidyanatha Dikshitar says in his work "Jataka 
 Parijatham", that visits to far off places have to be predicted with reference to the 12th bhava. He adds that an individuals dignity, comfort of bed sayana etc., misfortune and waste of wealth have to be ascertained from the strength of the 12th house, its lord and 
 Saturn, the karaka or the chief governor for the 12th house matters. He asserts that if the wandering Moon is in 12 identical with a movable sign or aspected by 
 Saturn, then one will roam about. Waxing Moon receiving beneficial aspects, makes one liberal and philanthropic. He will be virtuously disposed and will indulge in doing meritorious deeds. 
 He may also be engaged in agriculture. Moon favourably aspected by the passionate Venus gives comforts of bed.

Ramadayalu mentions in sanketanidhi that the 12th house rules the feet. He further says that this is the house of vyaya or loss. Loss may also mean deterioration in the bank position of the person.
 Suppose one has good aspects in one's horoscope between the lord, of 8 and 12 and one has taken money on loan. This aspect forestalls clearance of loan, because to the lender represented by the 7th house, it is a good aspect between his 2nd and 6th house lords indicating financial gain to him.

The 12th house signifies issue of cheques. The 8th house is the receipt of the cheque by the person denoted by the 7th. Hence benefic planets in the 12th and 8th houses, with good aspects between them, promise return of loan.

The author of Sanketanidhi says that sudden and unexpected demands, pressure for money, uncommon , expenses far in excess of income, gift, charity, donation, construction of well, reservoir etc., virtuous or sinful actions for a person, punishment from any source fines, losses, etc., come under the domain of the 12th house. Death may result during the period of the planet that has connection with the 12th house in any manner.

The author of Jatakadesamarga suggests that one ought to seek information from the 12th house regarding one's expenses, destruction, loss and fall from position.
The 12th house is related to such places of segregation as jails, asylums and other institutions of correction or detention or any enclosure where liberty
is curtailed. In the words of Alan Leo, it is the house of the voluntary recluse as well as of the pauper, the invalid and the prisoner. It denotes association with hospital, sanatorium or nursing hoMe; also mental institutes. It has to do with convent or monastic life. 
 One may be confined to bed in hospital on account of ill-health or he may himself be a medical attendant therein.Therefore, a careful examination of the 12th house and of the planets connected with it is called’ for. If the planet in the 12th house has anything to do with houses 2,6,10and service in Hospital is indicated. 
 If the planet in 12 has no connection with houses 2 and 10 but has to do with the 6th house alone, then one may be admitted for treatment in a hospital. Thus should one proceed.

The 6th house and the planets connected with it explain ordinary ill-health and disease, more especially of an acute nature, the duration of the disease and recovery from it. The 8th house represents the fatal nature of the disease causing mental disturbance and anxiety to life. The 12th has sway over chronic diseases, requiring confinement to bed in connection with treatment.

The 12th house indicates life in a foreign place, change of place or a thorough change in surroundings and environment. It is not necessary that one should go to a foreign country and settle down there. Any place other than the native's permanent place is to be construed as foreign. If the 4th house lord goes to the 12th, it denotes that one will have change of one's residence or a thorough change in environments. If the 9th house is in any manner connected to the 12th
house, i.e., if the lord of the 9th is in 12 or is conjoined with the lord of 12, of the planet in 12 is situated in the constellation ruled by the lord of 9, it is a definite indication of a long journey and life in a foreign place.

The 6th house is said to signify pet animals, birds and small cattle generally, while the 12th stands for large cattle, beasts, etc.

L. George says that the 12th house.is the house of affliction representing trails and tribulations, sorrow and self-undoing arising either from treachery or persecution by secret enemies or from the bonds of restriction: also from want, poverty, ignorance or disease. Kidnapping arson, loot, rape, poisoning, boot-legging, smuggling, blackmailing etc., come under the influence of the 12th house.

In racing, the 12th house presides over the feet, the limitations and restrictions brought on the owners of horses the barring of jockey's from riding fraud and deceptive action etc.

In horary questions, the 12th house has to be looked at in questions connected with Grief persecution, secret mental toil, envy, malice misery etc., also sedition, treason, assassination, suicide , etc. All matters concerning deceit, sorrow, weeping, blackmailing, etc,have reference to the 12th bhaya,

In Prasnagnana, the author inclines to the view that information regarding enjoyment& disputes (litigation or quarrel), charity, donations, sacrifices and agricultural operations have to be sought for through the 12th bhava.

In State Astrology, the 12th house deals with all philanthropic, charitable or reformative institutions, jails, asylums or homes for the afflicted and hospitals.
 It refers to crime in general criminals,. spies, underground movements and secret enemies of the nation at home or abroad. Secret and occult societies are governed by this house. It also concerns monasteries and other forms of institutional religion.

This house signifies substance or money of elder brothers or friends, being the 2nd from the 11th. As it happens to be the 4th from the 9th, it represents father's permanent possessions, vehicle, etc. It signifies the sickness of wife or husband, her or his debts, etc., being the6th reckoned from the 7th. Being the 7th counting the 6th as the first, it represents the litigation, etc., of the servants. Being the 8th from the 5th house it denotes danger, difficulties and disapoinment to children. It denotes long journeys to mother, her foreign travels and success achieved in writing, etc., being in 9 to 4. Since it is the 10th from the 3rd house, it shows younger brothers or sister's profession, popularity, prosperity etc.
