TWELVE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC - THEIR CLASSIFICATION AND THEIR INFLUENCE
The circle of space surrounding the earth and measuring 360 degrees of celestial longitude is referred to as the Zodiac. It is an imaginary belt in the 
 Heavens. It is 15 degrees wide in which the planets travel. It is the path in the middle of which the Sun appears to more around the earth, called Ecliptic.
The Zodiac is divided into 12 equal parts. They are 1. Aries - Mesha, 2. Taurus - Rishaba. 3. Gemini - 
 Mithuna, 4. Cancer - Kataka, 5. Leo - Simha, 6. Virgo - Kanni, 7. Libra - Thulam, 8. Scorpio - Vrischika, 9. 
 Sagittarius - Dhanus, 10. Capricorn - Makara. 11. 
 Aquarius - Kumba, 12. Pisces - Meena.
Each of these is a solar mansion otherwise called a sign or a rasi and each extends to exactly 30 degrees. Each sign has derived its name from its resemblance to the group of constellations found in and around the Zodiac. These signs may be classified broadly into thirteen groups depending on their influences on animate and inanimate objects. They are :
(1) Positive and Negative Signs
(2) Northern & Southern Equinoctial, Tropical 
 Signs. (3) Fiery, Earthy, Airy & Watery signs
(4) Movable, Fixed & Common signs (5) Fruitful or barren signs (6) Mute signs (7) Violent signs (8) Human signs (9) Voice signs (10) Bestial or Four legged signs (11) Dual signs
(12) Bicorporal or double bodied (13) Short & Long ascension signs 

 POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE SIGNS
The signs from Aries (Mesha) onwards are alternative positive and negative. They are sometimes referred to as masculine (or day signs) and feminine (or night signs) respectively. Thus, the odd signs namely, Aries (Mesha), Gemini (Mithuna), Leo (Simha), Libra (Thulam). Sagittarius (Dhanus) and 
 Aquaries (Kumba) are positive (or Masculine); the even signs viz., Taurus (Rishabha). Cancer (Kataka), . 
 Virgo Kanya), Scorpio (Vrischika), Capricorn (Makara) and Pisces meena) are negative (or Female).
The positive signs denote an assertive, bold, expressive, active and offensive nature. They give determination, power of will and force. On the other': hand the negative signs show a passive, receptive, defensive and a somewhat conciliatory disposition. 
 There is a tendency for the positive signs to be more self-expressive and less passive in their reactions and for the negative signs to be more self-repressive and less outgoing and spontaneous.
A positive sign as Ascendant indicates that the native is more generally fortunate in his undertakings than a negative sign does. The negative signs are weak and feminine on account of passive qualities.
If the lagna falls in a male sign and other testimonies also support, then even a lady born in a modest family, will have masculine appearance and qualities. But if the lagna falls in a male sign occupied by feminine, planets or if the lord of lagna occupies a female sign, he may be a male with feminine qualities, appearance and character, etc.
If the sign on the cusp of the 5th house falls in a masculine sign; If the 5th lord is a masculine planet and is in a masculine sign, etc., most of the offsprings will be boys. If these happen to be feminine, then the offsprings will be girls. This is a general rule.
Positive signs on the cusp of the ascendant give vitality, negative signs are not so vigorous, unless a strong masculine planet is very near the cusp of the 
 Ascendant.

NORTHERN AND SOUTHERN SIGNS
The first six signs of the Zodiac, namely, Mesha, 
 Rishaba, Mithuna, Kataka, Simha and Kanya (i.e., 
 Aries to Virgo) are called Northern signs, as they are to the north of the celestial Equator (they are in the northern hemisphere). The remaining six signs, that is, Thulam. Vrischikam, Dhanus, Makara, Kumba and 
 Meena (Libra to Pisces) are to the south of the celestial Equator (in the southern hemisphere and are so termed southern signs.

EQUINOCTIAL SIGNS
Equinox means equal day and night. When the 
 Sun is in the intersecting point of the celestial Equator and the Ecliptic where Aries commences and Pisces ends and the point of intersection is at the end of Virgo and the beginning of Libra, then the days and nights are equal all over the world. This phenomenon occurs only twice in a year, i.e. around 21st March and 23rd 
 September.
Mesha (Aries) and Thulam (Libra) are hence the two equinoctial signs. Mesha (Aries) is the vernal equinoctial sign and Thulam (Libra) the autumnal equinoctial sign.

TROPICAL SIGNS
Cancer (Kataka) and Capricorn (Makara) are the two tropical signs. They are sometimes called the summer solstitial sign and winter solstitial sign respectively. The days are the longest the Sun is in the initial point of Cancer and the nights are the longest when the Sun is in the beginning of Capricorn Sun enters Capricorn on or around the 22nd. December every year according to the Sayana system. As per 
 Nirayana. system-fixed zodiac-the dates are different.

FIERY, EARTHY, AIRY AND WATERY SIGNS
The Zodiacal signs are classified into four groups or triplicities according to the four elements which are 
 Fire, Earth, Air and Water, corresponding to spirit, body mind and soul symbolising spiritual. physical, mental and psychic processes in man. The four groups are as follows :
Mesh Simha Dhanus
Fire 
 Earth Rishabha Kanya Makara 
 Air Mithuna Thulam Kumbha 
 Water Kataka Vrischika Meena

The FIERY SIGNS represent the vital spirit including activity. They tend to an assertive, independent, courageous and enthusiastic nature. ¢ They signify activity and ambition, vigour and vitality, energy and push. When fiery signs are on the cusp of the ascendant, the disposition is said to be proud, enterprising and commanding with more desire to lead others that serve them. The native may be argumentative and self-confident. The mind is aspiring, acute and penetrating. The native will not relish the suggestion offered by others and will act on his own impulses. A Spiritual bent of mind is also denoted.
 Fiery signs as Ascendant cause fevers and inflamatory disorders, sudden illness usually acute but lasting only for a short duration.
According to Westerners if the majority of planets occupy fiery signs, it shows ingenuity, force and energy and fits the native to study mechanics and to follow any trade or profession in which metals and fire play a part, as those of soldiers, mechanics, engineers, smith, barbers, butchers, surgeons as also hazardous and dangerous vocation. Planets in these signs are more active than in others.
Also Leo has stated that fiery signs are connected with vitality and vital force ; earthy signs with the physical body ; airy signs with the nervous system.
brain and mind generally ; and watery signs with the etheric double-the finer mould into which they physical system was cast at birth.

EARTHY SIGNS show solidity and stability. They indicate material welfare and the native will be bent on making wealth and seeking power and position.
 Earthy signs also if rising give good health. One will be careful and cautious, premeditative, prudent and practical ; secretive and suspicious ; stubborn and self-protective, slow and steady ; reserved and retrained ; methodical and economical ; plodding and persevering. His mind is, practical, objective, scientific, methodical and materialistic. When a majority of planets occupy earthy signs, business would be the best.
In the words of Mr. L. George, this triplicity is represented by the nervous temperament exhibiting restless, worried and agitated characteristics with predisposition to rheumatic, and windy complaints with a tendency towards chronic disorders.
He is of opinion that earthy signs give employment having a bearing on business, buildings, mining and all laborious, heavy and slow work in which time, labour and perseverance are required. Kanya inclines to chemistry, Rishaba to agricultural pursuits or finance, and Makara to administrative or political positions.
One may engage in occupations connected with agriculture, horticulture, gardening land, mines, timber building materials etc., or as a contractor or deal in
foodstuffs both in the raw and cooked states, such as grocery business, in restaurants or as grain dealers.
 He may deal in dress, goods and clothing.

AIRY SIGNS are distinctly connected with mind and mental experiences.
They indicate less vitality, if well connected, they show cheerful, gentle, amiable, courteous, sympathetic, refined and human nature. They offer good intellect, fertile imagination ; idealistic 'and artistic nature; well-informed, fertile. The mind is ¢ cultured, musical, inquisitive ; fond of reasoning ; generally well-behaved and level-headed. He will not be assertive but tactful.
People born in airy signs will have active circulation. Their bodies will be plump and their complexion good. They will be well informed and wide- awake workers.
People born in these signs will exert much, get exhausted and, due to overwork, suffer nervous troubles.
Airy signs. denote intellectual pursuits best fitted to be advisers. Or they show their skill in some literary occupations. Scientific pursuits will be advantageous.
 Any profession, wherein the mind and brain are more exercised than the body, fit them most. They are ideally suited as accountants book-keepers, poets, novelists, lawyers, artists, reporters, lecturers, scientists, aviators, inventors, etc.
The majority of the planets in airy signs show that the native is talented, refined, courteous, idealistic and often inconstant. The native will be artistic and literary minded.

WATERY SIGNS signify a fruitful nature and give enough of fertile imagination. They show less recuperative power. The constitution-will be weak. The disposition is timid. inert, and unwilling to act. The mind is receptive, contemplative sensitive. sentimental, and psychic. Occult tendencies are indicated.
Alan Leo says as follows:- "The watery signs are the least fortunate givings sensitiveness and often lack of energy.
When the majority of the planets occupy watery signs, the native is shy, sensitive, timid, psychic and often lacks energy.
The watery signs, if afflicted, make one anaemic and weak pulsed. In later stages tumour or cancerous growths may trouble them. Watery signs, If rising, give much less stamina and predispose to digestive, urinary and catarrh troubles.
Watery signs favour all employments in which liquid is used. It includes everything from mineral water to wines and spirits, or from washing clothes to sailing e.g. sailors, fishermen, brewers, wine merchants, ship builders, ship owners, marine engineers and manufacturers and dealers in liquid refreshments etc., also emotional acting, elocution, etc. All occupations in which water is the chief element ; also dealers in
soft good, textiles, fabrics, chemists etc., are influenced by watery signs. "A majority of planets in watery signs denotes a psychic or emotional nature ; the instinctive consciousness is very keen ; the native is more or less receptive or impressionable ; often mediumistic and sometimes passionate"

THE QUALITIES : MOVABLE, FIXED AND COMMON SIGNS
Each category of the four signs (such as movable, fixed and common) has a common factor or quality of expression, but this quality in each sign would be applied differently. The 3 qualities may be compared to the three Gunas of Hindus, viz, the cardinal or movable to Rajas (activity), the fixed to Tamas constancy), and the mutable or common to Sattva (rhythm).
Mesha, Kataka, Thulam and Makara are movable signs, Rishaba, Sim ha, Vrischika and
 Kumbha are fixed ones. Mithuna, Kanya, Dhanus and
 Meena are common signs.

Movable signs represent movement from one place to another, just as water in the river flows smoothly without going back to its source.
Movable signs show enterprise, enthusiasm, love of ambition, forcefulness, and go-a-head spirit ; fame recognition and popularity; and ability to complete plans and execute them in a short time. The native always loves change and reform. They represent the
busy people, the best businessmen. pioneers, those ; who rise in life on their own and those who make headway against heavy odds and impediments. The natives of movable signs are independent in spirit and self-assertive. They dislike dependence on others and are averse to subordination.
Movable signs on the Ascendant incline to ailments affecting the head, stomach, kidneys and all movable or functional disorders. They tend to brain fever, headache, fits, disorders of the stomach, kidney troubles, cold, rheumatism, injuries to the head and knees, etc.
Afflictions from movable signs indicate acute ailments which usually run their course and leave no particular trace.
Movable signs on the cusp of the 2nd house help one to earn money through name, fame and public recognition. The natives of these signs have great vitality and dynamism so much 50 they gain through activity, ambition and adventures. There is the liability to fluctuating fortune and changes where money is concerned. Speculative enterprise is favoured and acquisitiveness is usually well developed.
If the third house cusps falls in a movable sign, it signifies that the mind is often aspiring, active, ambitions, enterprising but changeable. One will love change and like travels. He will do a lot of traveling about. Close ties with cousins, neighbours, etc., and with relatives in general are developed.
Being possessed of dynamic energy, one will be able to take up pioneer work. The natives of these signs are ardent in whatever they undertake and if they once espouse a cause-social, political, religious or educational or any other-they will work for that cause with all the vim and vigor of their energetic nature.
 They succeed through sheer audacity.
The persons influenced by these signs are best fitted in positions that require speed and swiftness, wit and ingenuity and tact and diplomacy. They never rest content until they are in the lead of whatever pursuit they follow. They scorn subordination. These native are ideally suited to occupy responsible and authoritative positions.
When, in horoscope, the majority of the planets are placed in movable signs or when these signs are on the 1st, 4th, 7th and 10th houses called angles or kendras, it shows that one will hold a prominent position, be it trade, business, politics or profession.
 He will exhibit ambition and enterprise to a great degree. They will never feel fully satisfied unless they are at the head of things. They are fond of changes in life and will have many changes too.
If Jupiter occupies the 11th house falling in a movable sign, it indicates executive ability and progress ; if this happens to be a fixed sign, jealousy and pride among friends is the result ; If it is a common sign, one may have friends who are scientifically inclined or religious minded. Also, one's friends may prove unreliable.
Saturn placed in the 11th house in a fixed sign signifies that there will be delay and hindrance through friends. If the 11th cusp is in a common sign and Saturn is also there, one may not achieve one's hopes. There may also be sorrow through friends.
 When the movable signs are on the angles (1st, 4th, 7th and 10th houses) one will be resourceful and alert. He would grasp an idea very quickly. Being enterprising and active, he will shun no effort in order to succeed. He will succeed in any enterprise, come what may. A brave, bold and indomitable spirit is indicated.

Fixed Signs
The influence of the fixed signs rouses the desire nature, giving stamina and persistence in action.
 Person of these signs have a very strong and determined will. They are pre-eminently thorough. If they make up their mind to do anything, they will keep on working with remarkable patience and persistence until success comes to them. They are very practical in their approach. They will not mind doing anything for one who has own their affection. They are very firm in their mental attitude and once an opinion has been formed they cling to it with tenacity. They are very difficult people to convince but, when once won over to a cause, they will defend in to the last.
Those influenced by the fixed signs will be outspoken, self-reliant and reliable and remarkably patient. On the other side they are obstinate, rigid, dogmatic, unrelenting and unbending. They will persist
in a given direction and neither reason nor argument will turn them. Their tendency is to seek solitude and become self-absorbed. These people are endowed with good executive ability. The natives with the fixed sign are very fond of comfort, luxury and other refining influences of life.
Fixed signs tend to ailments defecting heart and the generative system. Chronic or organic troubles are threatened. One may suffer from diseases like diphtheria, bronchitis, asthma, heart troubles defective circulation and spinal complaints. Afflictions from fixed signs denote that one may inherit hereditary diseases which usually become chronic.
Fixed signs bring the native gain through authoritative influence, investments and accumulation of unlearned income.
There being no fluctuation denoted, one can expect to have a fixed income.
If the third house falls in a fixed sign, then the native will have a fixed and rigid attitude. He will be persevering, plodding, painstaking, proud and authoritative. He dislikes traveling. Any travel is usually forced by circumstances.
It favors Government service and employment in ancient institutions and established businesses with security of service. One will achieve success through slow, steady and sustained effort.
The fixed sign people grasp opportunities slowly.
 Being conservative-minded, they do not quickly
respond to the new environment and care more for permanency and fixity.
When fixed signs are on the cusps of the 1st, 4th 7th and 10th houses in a horoscope or most of the planets are found in in fixed signs, one will be firm, determined, dignified and self-reliant. He will be slow and plodding but will succeed eventually. One will require time to come to a decision. "Patient persistence in every doing" is his motto. He is sure to rise in life through fixity of purpose and persistent effort. He will put his talent to the best use. Setback does not daunt him. He will adhere to a method only after being satisfied that it will meet his requirements.
 It is next to impossible to change him but when veered round to a cause, he will prove to be its most ardent and reliable advocate.

Common (dual, mutable) signs may be likened to the swinging pendulum. They represent the vibratory motion passing from one point to another and back again linking the two extremes of its motion. The nature is dual and fluctuating. Flexibility or plasticity is the predominant characteristic.
These signs denote an intellectual, sympathetic, sensitive subtle, versatile and changeful nature. The natives born in these signs or having a majority or the planets in these signs will often be inconstant, indecisive, vacillating and restless. Being flexible, they never exert their will power sufficiently. Their tendency is to drift and dream of the future. They will have no set purpose and they are goaded into action only when the stern whip of necessity is applied.
 They are
peaceful and sympathetic in their disposition and cordial and pleasing in their manner. They sometimes suffer injury from others not because they cannot retaliate, but being averse by nature to exertion they do not wish to take up the trouble to fight : Nothing appeals to the man of common sign permanently. He desires nothing as much as change and roving about, usually in an aimless manner. One born in common sign is best fitted to be in the employ of others than have others in his employ. Unless born well off, these people seldom make their way in life, always loving leisure and lacking a go-ahead spirit.
People with common sign are sensitive to and much swayed by the surrounding environment as they lack the stamina to assert themselves.
People of common sign are not capable of the slow and sustained work put forth by the fixed class.
 They get easily discouraged by difficulties and are in tears on the slightest provocation. Being averse to strenuous work they shine according to their ability to think. The therefore prove best when they take up agencies, commission jobs, etc, in which much of executive skill is not required.
These signs bring income to one through service and ordinary means. Finance is prone to fluctuation.
 The man of common sign, being lazy and indifferent, will be indifferent even in regard to accumulation of wealth.
Common signs incline to affections of the lungs, limbs breathing apparatus and all kinds of nervous
disorders. The diseases denoted are often convertible.
 One may be able to overcome them entirely or the diseases will run their course and become chronic depending on the individual's mental temperament.
Common signs on the 3rd house cusp make the mind more receptive, methodical, systematic and easily affected by surroundings.
When common signs are connected with houses 2, 6 and 10 one is best fitted to serve others. For instance, one can act as , middleman, an agent, a messenger, clerk, teacher, editor or speaker.
 According to Alan Leo, it sometimes denotes occupations in which uniforms are worn, companies or where public commodities are dealt with.
If the 1st and 7th lords are in harmonious aspect or in parivartana (mutUal exchange), partnership is advisable ; a good mutual working arrangement is indicated. If the cusp of the 11th house and the lord of 11 is in common signs, one will acquire doubtful friendships.
When the common signs are on the cusps of the angles (1st 4th, 7th and 10th houses in the chart) or when a number of planets are posited in these signs, the mind is often fickle, lightly superficial, wavering and versatile. One may grasp an idea in a short time and arrive at a decision, but will change his decision quickly. One will be systematic and methodical, but succeeds in life by other's aid. Even if one succeeds, he does not gain the required recognition for his merit and labour. Being vacillating, he is liable to miss opportunities that come his way.

Fruitful Signs
Cancer (Kataka), Scorpio (Vrischika) and Pisces (Meena) are said to be fruitful in nature, all watery signs being fruitful.
Taurus (Rishaba) Libra (Thulam), Capricorn (Makara) and Sagittarius (Dhanus) are said to be semi-fruitful.
Fruitful signs in the cusps of the 5th and 7th houses an their lords in fruitful signs, the indication is an early union Barren signs in the cusps of the 5th and 1st houses indicate that the native is not likely to marry in time (provided other testimonies also point to the same view). Fruitful signs covering the 11th and 5th houses and the lords of 5 and 11 in fruitful signs promise progeny. Barren signs in the cusps of the ist, 5th and 11th or the lords of these in barren signs lessen chances of children.

Barren Signs
Aries (Mesha), Gemini (Mithuna), Leo (Simha) and Virgo (Kanya) are called barren or sterile signs.
 These are not fruitful.
Barren signs on the cusps of the 5th and 11th house (11th house being 5th to the partner) and the lords of these not fruitful signs, Moon not in a fruitful sign, the lagna not fruitful sign the lord of lagna not occupying a fruitful sign a no fruitful planet in 5th or 11th houses are indications of no children.

Mute Signs
All watery signs (namely, Kataka, Vrischika and
 Meena) are mute signs.
If Mercury being lord of 6 is in the 2nd house in a mute sign or the lord of 6 is in the 2nd in a mute sign afflicted by Mars or Saturn, perceptible stammer, lisp or other impediment will be the result. Mercury anywhere in mute signs afflicted by Saturn causes stammer. If Mars adds his influence by bad aspect, then the native will talk very fast, lisp or pronounce his words badly. When Mercury happens to be in a mute sign in opposition to Moon, the native will have a defect in speech. Saturn in the lagna in a mute sign causes an impediment in speech. The 2nd house governs vocal organs. If a voice sign be found in the 2nd house in a horoscope, more especially if Venus or Mercury be therein free from affliction, then eloquence or some vocal gift may be predicted. Jupiter indicates that one will offer advice, preach (may or may not practice) and will be a platform speaker. Mars and Jupiter give assertion and make him an orator who can move the masses by his fiery speech. Mercury and Saturn show that he will modify his speech according to the time, circumstances and the crowd before him.

Violent Signs
Aries (Mesha), as also Scorpio (Virschika) are said to be violent signs. They know “no fears", They undertake all enterprises with courage and confidence.
 They are best fitted to take risk.

Human Signs
Gemini (Mithuna) Virgo (Kenya), Aquarius (Kumbha) and the 1st half of Sagittarius (Dhanus) are called human or humane signs as these are depleted by human figures on the symbolic globe.
Some authors consider Libra (Thulam) also as humane.
Prithyusaa says in Horasara Adhyaya I in sloka 1 I, that these signs are strong when the lagna falls in one of these signs.
"Whomsoever hath not the predominant planets cf his nativity in human signs will be little sociable and not very humane". If the ascendant or principal significators are not in human signs, the native himself will be estranged from human nature.

Voice Signs
Gemini (Mithuna), Libra (Thulam) and Aquarius (Kumbha), which are airy signs, are also called musical. or voice signs.
Some western authors consider Virgo (Kanya) and Sagttarius (Dhanus) also as voice signs. Some include Taurus (Rishaba) also.
Anywhere for voice, there should be the airy medium. That is why, all the airy signs are considered as voice signs.

Bestial Signs
 Mesha (Ram), Rishaba (bull), Simha (Lion),
 Makara (goat) and the 2nd half of Dhanus symbolised by the figures of animals whose names they bear are the bestial or four-legged signs.
These signs are said to be strong, according to
 Prithyusas, when the Meridian (10th house) falls in them. Those born when these signs ascend, are said to have the qualities of such animals, as being bold as the lion, lustful as the goat, etc.

Dual Signs
Gemini (Mithuna), Sagittarius (Dhanus and
 Pisces (Meena) are called twin signs or dual signs meaning plurality.

Bicorporal or double-bodied signs
Gemini (Mithuna) representing a boy and a girl, ist half of Dhanus representing a bow and an arrow, and Meena representing two fishes bound together by a cord are the bicorporal or double-bodied signs.

Signs or short Ascention
Makara, Kumba, Meena, Mesha, Rishaba and
 Mithuna are termed short ascension signs, because they ascend in a short time. The other six signs take longer time to ascend and are termed long ascension signs’.

Signs as long ascension
In the northern hemisphere the six signs, namely,
 Kataka, Simha, Kanya, Thulam, Vrischika and Dhanus take longer time in ascending than the other six signs, and are thus termed as long ascension signs. For places in the southern hemisphere, this must be reversed, the signs of long ascension in the northern hemisphere being short ascension signs in the southern hemisphere.