Neither the Hindus nor the Westerners knew about the existence of Uranus till about the 13th
 March 1781.
Nobody can state with authority who discovered the planets Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn which are visible to the naked eye and which are wandering in the zodiac. No skill is needed to note 
 Sun and Moon, as one cannot, miss them. Westerners are of opinion that Mr.Seth was the first to divide the zodiac into 12 equal parts and the literature shows that ancient Chinese, Mayas and Incas of South 
 America, the Babylonians, Chaldeans, Egyptians and others had realised the existence of these planets. (Probably, a week is distributed to these 7 planets and there are 7 days in the week.)
But the Astronomer Royal, John Flamsteed, was the first person who noticed between 1690 and 1715, on more than six occasions, the existence of this planet. Later, a musician called Herschel discovered this planet and according to the suggestion of Mr.Bode he gave the name Uranus to this new planet. It is also named after him as "Herschel".
It is about 1782 million miles away from Sun. The greater the distance from Sun, the slower will be the movement in the Zodiac. So also Uranus is a slow- moving planet. It takes about 84 years to go round the 
 Sun once. Its diameter is about 32,000 miles.
Since Uranus is not known to the ancient astrologers of India, there is no name in Sanskrit or in any other Indian language for Uranus. A few beginners of astrology mistake Uranus as either Rahu or Kethu and a few call it 'Indra' without any authority.
Both the Westerners and the Hindus originally know only 7 planet Sun to Saturn, and both allotted the 12 signs of the Zodiac to these 7 planets. Sun and 
 Moon were given Leo and Cancer, each only one sign, whereas the other five planets were allotted two signs each.

After discovering Uranus, the westerners considered that Uranus (1) governs the central nervous system and thereby it offers supreme intelligence and research mind or perverted ideas. (2) Uranus cause sudden unexpected results including death. So,
 Uranus is allotted Aquarius-Kumba which is an airy sign. Sudden death is due to heart-failure. None is said to be dead unless the heart stops functioning. 
 Generally, heart falls last. But, here the heart fails first. 
 So the sign that opposes the sign indicating heart, 
 Simha (Leo) is Aquarius. Probably on these two points, they would have allotted Aquarius as the sign to Uranus and call that Uranus ruled this sign. So, the owners of 
 Aquarius are both Saturn and Uranus.
So far, it is not established in which sign Uranus will be exalted and where it would be debilitated. 
 Anyhow, as long as Uranus controls the intelligence of a native and also nervous system, it would be proper to allot Virgo-Kanni as the sign of exaltation to Uranus.

Physical Features
Uranus occupying the ascendant or forming good aspect with Lagna gives long limbs and slender body. 
 Genera4y, those who have grown very tall will have such a favourable connection of Uranus with the ascendant. (One should not take the whole Lagna bhava for 
 Aspects: only the cusp should be taken.) Further, 
 Uranus in the signs Gemini, Aquarius, Sagittarius and 
 Leo will produce unusually tall persons. Uranus will give deep-set penetrative eyes and good vision. But, if it afflicts the second cusp and also the planets Venus and Sun, it causes defect in the vision.

Diseases
 If Uranus is either in the ascendant or in the 6th house and if it forms unfavourable aspect with Sun, one will have heart trouble or epilepsy. Uranus in Aries causes injuries to the head and headache on any one side. There will be no sleep. It is likely that the person nods his head, unknowingly, frequently . Uranus in 
 Taurus causes sore-throat, swellings, mumps and if it is afflicts Mercury and also the 2nd cusp, one will lose his voice. Uranus, in Gemini produces pneumonia, bronchial affection, asthma, hiccough and cough. 
 Uranus in Cancer gives dyspepsia, fracture of the ribs and ulcer in the breasts. Uranus in Leo affects the vertebral column, spine and the heart. Uranus in Virgo causes disorders in the digestive system, produces 
 Ulcers. Also one will imagine as though he is suffering from some disease or the other. A few will meet with electric shock. Uranus in Libra represents inflammation of the kidneys. There may be stone in
the bladder; diabetes and pains in the hips are signified. Uranus in Scorpio causes hernia, hydrocele and diseases in the generative system, piles and fistula. Uranus in Sagittarius threatens danger from animals; also threatens Tetanus, hydrophobia, injury from falling down from an animal and fractures of the hip and thigh. Uranus in Capricorn causes rheumatism, dislocation, fracture, etc. Uranus in Aquarius indicates suffocation, heart-failure, and death due to poisonous gas. Uranus in Pisces causes fracture, lameness, amputation, scurvy, scabies or eczema.

Characteristics:
The advancement of science is generally signified by Uranus. Hence, people having Uranus strongly posited in their chart will be always after study, thinking, and thinking. They are best suited for doing research and bringing out the truth. They do not want to simply follow the traditions without convincing themselves. They will be inclined to study occultism and mesmerism; they gain such knowledge to heal diseases by their mental will, telepathy, television, electricity, astrology and other allied studies. Those people with strong Uranus will have correct intuition, keen foresight, quick action and constructive criticism. 
 Uranus gives independent spirit, original thought and speedy turnover. In love affairs, unless Uranus has got beneficial aspects, the persons having strong Uranus with adverse aspect, will neither abide by law nor convention. They have their own law. It never takes time to fall in love with one and spoil the other sex and also to divorce in no time, whatever be the law moral and man.-made. But good aspect to Uranus makes one a
builder of a society to do good and give lift to the associates. Mostly people arranging marriage in their own way are not conventional, they do not mind about what others feel or say. In their horoscopes Uranus need not be afflicted. Mars may be a strong benefic. 
 The most eccentric person would be one in whose horoscope Uranus and Mercury have adverse aspects.

Character to be corrected
One should not entertain false ideas of 
 Independence; never be perverse either in thought or speech. Avoid violence and such actions which are self-destructive. Though one may prefer abrupt changes, it is advisable to judge properly whether it will bring any reversion and misfortune. Avoid blunt statements without any tact or diplomacy which will ultimately bring disfavour and opposition.

Parts of the body : It governs the nervous system, the brain and motor nerves.

Diseases : Hysteria, Paralysis, spasms, mental derangement, delusion, overgrowth, deficiency of pituitary secretion, miscarriage, (premature delivery), shock by electricity, injury due to high explosives, abnormal growth, spasmodic asthma, dry, hard cough, hiccough, flatulence, palpitation, spinal meningitis, infantile paralysis, venereal eruption, etc.

Profession : Research scholars, all research departments, astrologers, chiropractors, teachers, sculptors, phrenologists naturopaths, lecturers, telegraphers, antiquarians, mesmerisers, clairvoyants, chemists, all manner of positions having to do with
electricity, radio, airplanes, and automobiles, scientists, engineers, public utility employees, particularly telephone, electrical industries, wireless and telegraph,. automobile industries, buses, tramways, railway, aerial navigation, joint stock companies, associates etc, aluminium, amalgams of metals, hemp fabric, film industries, modern departures in industries, museums, emporiums stadiums, scientific, research institutions, municipal corporations, trusts, atomic energy etc.

Political : Construction and installation of the above institutions; expansion of such departments and increasing the number of posts: research all modern branches of science and also ancient sciences, revolution and reformation: expansion of the communication department and also transport; sanction of loan to municipalities and local boards.
 Sudden improvement in any department or opening new ones, creating new posts etc.

Economic : Whenever there is good aspect to
 Uranus sudden boom in the market especially for electric corporations cables, explosives, telephones etc. The prices of shares will shoot up. Strikes will be called off. The revolution will be kept under control; no loss by lightening or by accidents. But if Uranus is adversely aspected sudden fall in the prices of shares due to calamities, catastrophies etc.

Products : Radium, electric goods, wireless, alloys, metals, am algam ; hemp fabric, electron, astronomical instruments.

Key words to Uranus : Adventurous, astrologers, automobile, bicycle, bomb, clairvoyance,
communists, divorce, drastic, eccentric, explosive, fanatic, freedom, gas, generator, illegitimate, intuitive, independent, lightening, modern, microscope, navel, outlaw, original, pioneer, prodigy, revolt, radio, active, shock, separation, telegram, telescope, unconventional, unexpected, virulent, varieties, whirl- wind, X-ray etc.

Places : Railway, steam engines, gas plants,. dispensary, work-houses, asylums, banks, infirmaries, coal-mines, machinery and tools industry, swimming pool, fish-pond.

Lucky Colour : Plaids, check and mingled colours, mixed variegated, purple.

Lucky Number : 4 or 13 or 22 or 31 and soon.

Lucky day : As Uranus is similar to Mercury one can take Wednesday as a lucky day if Mercury is not evil to that native.

Aries +: Independent-original, energetic, ambitious, ingenious, forceful, positive, impulsive, active, resourceful, inventive, changeful, roving, traveling, disregards tact,- no self-control, very blunt, so dispute, disapointment, reverses.

Taurus : Headstrong, stubborn, determined self- willed, persistent, suspicious jealous, ups and downs in bank position, sudden loss unexpected reverses, gain through partner or inventions.

Gemini : Intuitive, original, eccentric, ingenious, scientific, inventive, unconventional, astrologer, fond of studying electricity, practicing mesmerism, proceeding
on frequent journeys, making friends, and aspiring clairvoyance if afflicted trouble, in correspondence, journey etc., disharmony with brothers and neighbours. 

 Cancer : Emotional, sensitive, easily touched, attuned to psychic vibration, improves mediumistic abilities, restless, passion-less, changeable domestic trouble, separation, loss by land and property, disordered stomach, nervous indigestion.

Leo : Adamant, determined, industrious, aspiring, head-strong, forceful, unconventional, rebellious, very independent, daring, violence, occult ability, interested in electricity, invention, machinery, journalism, sports, very changeable in love affairs "On and on with fresh friends and off with old ones", difficulty during delivery.

Virgo : Very intelligent, independent, original, eccentric, scientific and mechanical minds, good in teaching, electricity, electronics, chemistry, mathematics, and science, changes in servants and also trouble through them.

Libra : unusual, artistic ability, fond of occult subjects, intuitive, beautiful personality, fertile imagination, much attached to partner, hasty engagement; if afflicted, sudden separation and even divorce or death of partner; enmity, caustic criticism, rivalry, opposition sorrow, worries, depressed, domestic trouble.

Scorpio : Determined, forceful, persistent, - power of meditation, concentration, shrewd, reserved, rebellious, secretive, self-advancement, inventive,
mesmeric power, industrial chemistry, explosives, firearms, electric device.

Sagittarius : inventive, imaginative, tendency to dream, occult art, religious, philanthropic, society, erratic, eccentric, higher education, adventurous, progressive, enterprising, foreign affairs, overseas, long journey.

Capricorn : persevering, enterprising, good reasoning. penetrating-mind, ambitious, serious, responsible, original, executive ability, astrology, machinery, electricity, radio, transport, municipalities, danger to elders, separation, estrangement, reversion, public criticism, enmity with superiors.

Aquarius : intuitive, original, unselfish, friendly, sincere, mechanical ability, inventive, independent, original, scientific, associations, societies, clubs, public life, municipal corporation, big companies, railway, radio, railways.

Pisces : Occult investigation, mysteries, and psychical-research, dreams and visions prove correct, farsighted, intercourse with the spirits, erratic, unsteady, unexpected misfortune, scandal, ill-repute, hostile, opposition, suicide, commercial chemistry.

First House : Independent, original, intuitive, inventive, inclined to the occult; unconventional, appears, old eccentric habits; astrology, mesmerism; hypnotism, spiritualism; healing without drug, telepathy, invention, electricity, give and take policy: restless, changes in office and residence, unfortunate marriages, revolutionary, unpopular in public, study science and religion; quick mind, abrupt, sarcastic, shocks, explosives or while traveling.

Second House : Ups and down in fortune, unsettled state, gains through discoveries, mechanism, banks, railways, music, and through electricity.

Third House : Separation from kith and kin, intelligent, worried, sudden and unexpected news, travels, meetings, accidents, adventurous, curious, clairvoyance, clairaudience, capsize of boats, shipwrecks, nervous trouble.

Fourth House : Fortune in foreign places, difficulty to inherit property, in domestic life, disharmony with wife and close relatives, ups and downs of financial position, liable to accidents, loss by theft , fraud, deception, loss by lightning, floods, mis- judgements and thinking.

Fifth House : Romantic, secret love, changeable, no pleasure in old, unconventional, courtship, danger in child birth, loss of first child, social.
 Always seeing new pictures. If afflicted, troubles through writings, publication etc., inciting to conspiracy, treachery and revolt, speculation, loss by risk and taking chances.

Sixth House : erratic, nervous disorder, sickness, puzzling medical attendant, strange and incurable disease, mental derangement, psychic experiences, insanity, treatement by radium, hypnotism and electricity, metaphysician, electrician and mesmerists.

Seventh House : Hasty marriage, pleasant, romance, sudden separation, partner intelligent,
misunderstanding after marriage-loss through foreigners, litigation, contracts, and dispute with municipal authorities.

Eight House : Transition from the physical to the spiritual world may be after long and pitifful sufferings or due to sudden unexpected end. The latter is ever preferred by all and Uranus is helpful in the eighth to give sudden end. Unexpected, advantageous, sudden and substantial gains through partner or marriages, or in any manner, if well aspected. If not, worry, difficulty, financial troubles, peculiar disease and death.

Nineth House : Independent, original, inventive, ingenious, intuitive, ever planning and scheming, fond of travels, trouble through the relatives by marriage, taste, for occult, metaphysical, religion and philosophy etc. Reformative and progressive ideas. Aerial research explorers, pioneers.

Tenth House : Independent, original-inventive, ingenious, unconventional, erratic, eccentric, difficulty from governments, from public, discredit and failure, separation from family, explorer, teacher, electrician, investigator, reformer, psychologist, novelist, antiquities, engineers, mechanic, hypnotist, reporter,
 Sudden changes and frequent ones. 

 Eleventh House : Friends intelligent and independent, original, creative, inventive, writers, government, executives and fortune in big companies.
 Impulsive, atachement, romantic life, progressive hopes and selfish ends.

Twelfth House : Occult investigation, psychic powers, mystic experiences, secret love affairs, difficulties with animals, separation from family, exile, estrangement, hospital bird or jail bird, detention, strange and secret enemies, fortune in foreign land.