Astronomy : Hindus considered Venus as the most brilliant planet even at the dawn of history, even though it appeared some months as the evening star, and some months as the morning star. By the other nations, Venus was given two names Phosphrous and
 Hesperus (as they thought that the morning star Venus was different from the evening star Venus. But around 500 B.C., Phythagoras, the great Greek geometer, confirmed that both the morning and the evening stars are identical.
Venus presents as brilliant disc especially in the early morning, when the agriculturists in the villages being their routine work in the lands and the Vedic 
 Brahmins begin their daily routine prayers, etc. 
 Venus is the brightest planet and it can, at her best, outshine Sirius, by 12 to 13 times.
Venus is much closer to the Sun than the earth. 
 Therefore, on some occasions, Venus will be between 
 Earth and Sun, and on some occasions Sun will be in between Earth and Venus. The average distance between the Sun and Venus is 67 million miles. The variation is very little, as the orbit of Venus is almost circular. The distance between Earth and Venus, during inferior conjunction, will be only 25 million miles. 
 The size of Venus is similar to that of the Earth. Venus has a diameter of 700 miles while that of the earth is 7900 miles. Its period is 225 days. The atmospheric layer around Venus is thick, peculiar and fascinating.
The brightness of Venus is due to the reflecting power of its atmosphere.
For the observers on the earth, Venus can never be more than 48 degrees from the Sun. Therefore, when Venus is the evening star and in 48 degrees away from the Sun, we can see it in the heavens for about 3 hours and 12 minutes after sunset.

Mythology : Venus is considered to be the
 Goddess of love, marriage, beauty and comforts. It is called Maha Lakshmi, wife of Lord Vishnu. Venus is also called as one-eyed. The story is to impress upon the mind that if Venus is ill posited, the eye will be affected.
Bali Chakravarthi was ruling both the Earth and the Heavens. The Devas and Indra appealed to Lord 
 Vishnu to free them from Maha Bali. So, Lord Vishnu took the form of a dwarf. He approached the emperor 
 Bali and begged him to give three feet of land for his use. Bali had a wise preceptor, named Sukracharya 
 The Guru understood the trick of the Lord and hence advised 'the emperor not to grant the request. In spite of it, Bali granted the request by pouring water in the hands of Lord Vishnu appearing in dwarf form. 
 Sukracharya blocked the passage of the water by one of his eyes. Lord Vishnu took a grass and pierced through the eye of the Guru as though he was removing the obstacle. Thus Sukracharya lost an eye.
Venus is also known as Luficer and Hespdrus. 
 Greeks call it the Aphrodite; the Babylonians call it 
 NANA; the Hebrews named it as the Astoreth; 
 Assyrians called Venus as Isktar and the Phoenicians as Astarte.
Venus rules Yajur Veda and Vasantha Rithu (April and May). Venus is called Kama, for one's passion depends on the strength of Venus and the aspects it receives, as Venus is chiefly concerned with the emotional outlets and character.

Astrology : Venus is a feminine planet. It rules the signs Taurus-Rishaba and Libra-Thulam, the second and the 7th signs of the Zodiac. The former is an earthy and a fixed sign, whereas the latter is an airy and a movable one. Being a feminine planet, it governs the gentle and refined attributes. That is why people, ruled by Venus, are kind and sociable. Taurus suggests that the native will be endowed with a pleasant and handsome countenance, as it is the second sign of the Zodiac; for the second house indicates one's cheek, eyes, etc. Libra shows that one will have symmetrical form, graceful manners, will be inclined to purchase peace at any price, and level- headed and will try to lead a happy and harmonious wedded life. By their pleasing personality, calmness, patient hearing to what others say, and refine nature, they will soften the ruffled feelings of others, change their attitude and prove to be real-makers. Also Venus furnishes the bond between all members of the family, whatever may be the relationship. Libra, being the seventh sign of the Zodiac, Venus shows Love. Mr.Max
 Heindel says, "Venus vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up, seeketh not her own, rejoices not in inquiry but in 
 I truth, breath all things, believeth all things and endureth all things."
Venus gets exalted in Pisces-Meena. Its 
 Moolatrikona sign is Libra-Thulam. It gets debilitated in Virgo-Kanni. Aries and Scorpio are the houses of detriment to it
Pisces is the 12th sign of the Zodiac. 12th house indicates Suka Sayana or conjugal bliss. Hence, strong Venus in a chart is a testimony that the native will have attraction to the other sex early in his life; also he will have attraction to all matter contributing for amusement and gratification of the senses. Pisces is a mised in those cases, where they have the conjunction or aspect from both the planets, Mars and 
 Saturn, as Saturn is to deviate from the man-made law and mars is to give opportunity, courage and strength to avail. In Taurus, Moon gets exalted, whereas in 
 Libra, Saturn is exalted. No planet is debiliated in 
 Taurus; but Sun is debiliated in Libra. This is a testimony that Venus is for Iha-Loka-Sukha and it can bestow one all comforts, enabling one to lead a pleasant life in this world.

Physical Features: Venus produces people of average height, plumpy body, round and pimpled face, or oval and very attractive one, bright, kind and pleasing eyes, pleasant voice, sweet smile and curly hair. If Venus is afflicted adversely, it bestows less beauty. Generally, Venusians are the winners in any competition especially when they apply for the reception department, as private secretary. salesman, propagandist, etc., other than the occasion, when a choice is to be made among a few competitors for marriage.

Part of the Body : Venus governs eyes, generative system throat, chin, cheeks, kidneys, etc.

Diseases: Affection in the eye, irregularity in the catamenia, diseases of the ovaries, mucous diseases, skin disease, Bright's diseasecy sts,
swelling, Goitre, Gout, Anaemia and other complications due to over-indulgence in amusements, eating, drinking, etc., including Gonorrhea and 
 Syphilis. If Sun and Venus get afflicted, eye disease will result. If Mars, Moon and Venus are ill-posited in a horoscope, then the native will have discharge for a larger number of days and the quantity also will be profuse.
If Saturn afflicts, then the discharge will be scanty, but the pain near the chest and the lower abdominal region will be for some days before and after the period.
If Mars, Venus and Sun are afflicted, then the native will have to undergo treatment by a surgeon to have a child.
If Saturn afflicts Sun and Venus, one may have fibroid tumour, Jupiter, afflicting Sun and Venus, indicates cancer.
If Mercury afflicts by the semi-square or semi- demi-square aspect with Venus, one may have nervous disorders which may lead to Hysteria.
As Venus represents the beauty of the skin, when afflicted by Saturn or Kethu, one will suffer from 
 Eczema, Leprosy or Leucoderma.
Thus, considering the adverse aspect to Venus, one is to judge the nature of the disease.

Injuries may be caused by an accident through
any vehicle car accident, plane accident, cart running over one, cycle, etc. They may also be caused though
the animals and the birds which are governed by 
 Venus, eg, panther, bull, cow, buffalo, goat, etc. Those, who have been keeping birds and animals as hobby, may have done, peacock, sparrow etc.

Places : Bed room, dancing and dining room, cinema theatre, drama hall, garden, nursery, fountains, banqueting hall, scent manufacturing factory, automobile industrial places, shipping yards, aerodrome, etc, chemical industrial areas, silk and rayon industrial quarters, mica, mines (if Saturn is conjoined with, or aspecting Venus), glass manufacturing places, etc. ;

Political : Cease fire, peace, prosperity in the country. No more necessity for control or permits but opportunity for Free Trade Laws favourable for transport, railway, shipping etc, for cine people, musicians and ladies, expansion programme and export facility for silk, textile, rayon, toilets, perfumeries, mica, chemical's cinema films, women's welfare.

Economic : Satisfactory dividends, good relationship among the partners and shareholders.
 Issue of bonus share. Improvement of the industry and much prosperity. Rise in the prices of the shares. 
 Flotation of new companies dealing in any of the products, governed by Venus.

Products : The finished goods of the textile, silk and rayon products, silver, copper, glass mica, toilets, perfumery, fancy goods, photograph, films, hosiery for ladies, confectionery, sandalwood oil, fruits, flowers, sugar, chemicals, rubber, cars, ship, aeroplane,
embroidery, tailoring machines, musical instrument, radio, paints, milk, petrol, cotton, pomegranate, gooseberry, sandal, dandelion, jasmine, musk, punugu, nutmeg, condiments, Asoka tree, cherry, white poppy, chestnut fig, apple, and all juicy and tasty fruits, rubber and tobacco.

Profession : Musicians gamesters, cinema actors, actress, film producers, etc. Similarly in drama, dealers in musical instruments and in all the products mentioned above. Those employed in transport, automobile railway, bus, taxi, lorry, air travel, shipping, food department, animal husbandry, slaughter house, agriculture, estates, coffee, tea, rubber, etc, opticians, glass, mica and plastic, linen drapers, tailors, painters jewelers, players, embroiderers, those employed to make-up, dress, comb, etc, fiddlers, pipers.
If the second house is strong, and Venus indicates one's profession, he will be a vocal musician, a singer, or poet as Venus is called Kavi.
If the third house has connection with Neptune and Venus (who is the significator for one's profession), he will be using string instruments. If the sign is a short one as Aquarius, he will play violin. But if it is Gemini or Libra, a sign of Long ascension, he will have Veena. If Venus is in third or the ninth house and is having beneficial (18 degrees, 30 degrees, 36 degrees or 60 degrees) aspect from 
 Mercury, and if either is in an airy sign, he may be good in Flute or Nagaswararn. Short sign like 
 Aquarius indicates Flute. Long signs portray fertile imagination and he may- be_ interested in 
 Jaladharangam.
A strong Mars, receiving good aspect from 
 Venus, shows that he will be acquainted with Gatam.
Saturn, Venus and Mars indicate that he will be an expert in Mridangam, as Mars is for manual labour, 
 Venus for skin, Saturn for the dead and hence, Venus and Saturn for the dead and hence for leather. 
 Therefore this combination is necessary for them. Thus the trade or profession, in which one will be proficient, can be predicted.

Rulership :
Venus is called Kalathra Karaka, i.e., he is the chief governor for marriage. It shows whether one will be faithful in love and allow the partner to enjoy life, or one will be troublesome and unreliable making the married life a hell on earth.
Venus also indicates the partner in business, if it has any connection with the second, sixth and tenth houses in the horoscope.
Venus is the chief planet connected with vehicles; 
 Vahana. The fourth house and Venus indicate whether one can have the comforts through conveyance, etc. It is Vahana Karaka.
For those born during day time, Venus is the 
 Karaka for mother. (The fourth house and its lord also signify mother.)

Lucky Colour : White, cream, ivory.
 Lucky numbers : 6,15,24,33,42,51 and so on. 
 Lucky day : Friday.
Lucky metal and stone : Copper, Silver,Brass, 
 Beryl Coral, Jade, Diamond, Alabaster.
Lucky star : On the days when Moon transits in 
 Bharani, Poorva Palguni and Poorvashada stars.

Modification and Aspects to Venus : As
 Venus is never more than 48 degrees away from the 
 Sun, the only aspects which can be formed with the 
 Sun are:-
1. Conjunction : when both are together either within 12 degrees when Venus approaches the Sun or within 17 degrees when Venus gets separated from the Sun.
(Good) 2. Parallel : Equal distance from the celestial
equator north or south; or one north and the other south.
(Good)
3. Vigintile : 18 degrees away which is moderately good.
4. Semi-demi-square : when both of them are 22 and a half degrees away which is evil.
5. Semi-Sextile : when they are 30 degrees apart which produces favourable results due to harmonious aspect.
6. Semi-quintile or decile : 36 degrees, will be longitudinal distance between them which is also a favourable one.
7. Semi-square: or 45 degrees distance between them which is evil. Thus seven aspects are
possible and according to the aspect, one can expect beneficial or adverse results in their joint periods; i.e., in their dasa and bhukties and also when they form aspect during progression and transit.

For those who have Venus as ruling planet, Sun forming good aspect with Venus, indicates that the native will be delighting in sociability, pleasure, easy life, comfort, luxury, clubs, societies, places of entertainment etc, One will be fond of company, especially of the opposite sex. He or she will be hospitable. It gives a generous, courteous and cheerful nature. It calls out the artistic nature. It makes the person fond of art, music and poetry. It is a positive testimony of unalloyed martial bliss. If Venus indicates one's earnings, good aspect promises gain of money through business partners, wife or husband, through profession, speculation and holding public office.
 There will be success in every enterprise with fresh opportunities for increase in income and improvement in status. One will enjoy good relationship with one and all. Good aspect promises that one will be a successful musicians or a film producer.
Sun and Venus in close conjunction and also occupying the 5th, the 7th or the 9th house, indicate either the wife is defective or she may have some disease in the generative system.
Adverse aspect indicates that one will amorous in nature. There may be delay in marriage or disapointment. Happy and harmonious life is denied. 
 All the beneficial results mentioned for favourable aspect will be absent, whereas just opposite results alone will be experienced. Domestic life will not be
pleasant. For a few, it will be a problem. The extent to which it can do harm, depends upon other bad aspects also.
The above results will be experienced in their mutual dasas, bhukties and anthras. If Sun happens to be the significator of marriage, the partner's star may be Karthikai or Pooram.

Moon forming good aspect with Venus : The person who has this beneficial aspect and to whom
 Venus is the ruling planet, by being born in one of its signs or in Ascendant with Venus strong therein, will, by nature, be polished and refined. He or she will be inclined to develop art and will appear beautiful by their neat dress, and also by the use of fragrant scent, powder, etc, to a limited extent. They will be fond of music, pleasure, light literature, cinema, drama, and other entertainments. They will be affectionate and attractive, gentle and good, sociable and sympathetic. 
 They will be treated with respect in the company of young people of the opposite sex. If Venus is the significator of his or her earnings, it promises splendid earnings, probability of rich inheritance through mother or wife or both, possession of luxurious and costly articles, furniture, and vehicles, etc. Naturally, the intelligence and imagination will get improved, and this will contribute to the happy and harmonious life. The following proverb will prove to be true in their cases. "The gown is hers that wears it, and the world is his who enjoys it" The may have satisfactory earnings, by catering to public tastes and needs, by running confectioneries, restaurants, boarding and lodging houses, or dealing in perfumeries, music, cinema, petrol, transport, shipping etc. One will be careless in
habits and manners. The relationship among the partners will be very cordial; they cannot suffer scandal and unpopularity. If Moon is a significator of marriage, the partner's star many be Rohini and 23rd Mayto 6th 
 June will be lucky. Adverse aspects will give the most undesirable results and will make the native's life horrible and not worth living.

Mars forming good aspect with Mars : Mars owns Aries and Scorpio, while Venus Libra and Taurus, both opposing each other, as both the planets are antagonistic in their qualities. Mars represents masculine, bold, militant; and rash action, while Venus indicates peace, harmony, calmness, and courtesy.
 Hence this aspect portrays that one will be courteous, well-behaved with pleasing manners and attracting all by his personal charm. It gives courage and confidence. One will be fond of adventure, amorous and ambitious. One may be proficient in instrumental music. His hobby may be to deal in cars. He may be extravagant.
Mars aspecting Venus promises greater earning capacity and ability; it will not allow him to save as much as one who has the good aspect of Saturn to 
 Venus. Mars gives enough of energy, authority, responsibility, tact, push and activity. If Mercury also forms good aspect, one will not mind spending money on advertisement, display, show and propaganda. Also they are the patrons for most of the clubs, societies, sabhas, etc. They will be able to make good gain through sports; be being good sportsmen, they must get lucrative posts in any office, though they may not be fully qualified for it, practical artistic ability or
mechanical skill, automobile engineering, tailoring, singing, dancing, owning, cinema theaters, or producing films, salesmanship, dress, jewels, ornaments, diamonds, textiles, photography, agriculture, coffee and tea board, etc.
Adverse aspect of Mars to Venus leads one to immoral life. But rivalry, spite and jealousy create many enemies and life will not be smooth. Passion cannot be controlled. Due to rash and violent action, there may be separation and dispute. It may even end in divorce. Saturn also forming evil aspect, will lead to the murder of the other partner. Worry through womenfolk, over indulgence, deranged health, loss of money, scandal and ill-repute are the unfavourable results. A few may meet with accidents through conveyance.
In the case of those who have good aspects, if 
 Mars is the significator of marriage, the partner may be born in Bharani star or Mrigasirisha first half or 
 Chithirai second half and the lucky period may be between April 26th to 10th May, between 8th June and 14th June, and between 17th October and 23rd 
 October.

Mercury forming good aspect with Venus:
 Mercury and Venus can never be more than 76 degrees apart. Therefore they can form only a few aspects which are moderate in strength in giving the results. The strong aspect like square and trine cannot be formed.
Good aspects make the native good natured. 
 They will keep all the members cheerful by their
pleasant and humorous talk; they will be good artists, developing taste in the fine arts, music, etc. They will have keen imagination and proficiency in literature, 
 Sanitary Engineering, poetry, comedy, drama-writing, and will have contact mostly with literates. They will not hesitate to stand surety for anybody without getting entangled later.
They will have plurality of interests and will gain money mostly as agent, salesman, broker, manager to ladies well-placed in life, or as assistants to actresses, musicians, etc., or by playing second violin and ever pleasing the employers. § as sanitary . engineers, electric light.and fan dealers, etc. If Saturn also forms favourable aspect. the natives will deal in Frigidaire. Mars, by lending its beneficial aspect, indicates that they may deal in electric heaters, motor batteries, etc.
If there were to be adverse aspect, the native should never stand surety to anybody, nor sign cheques, etc., without properly scrutinising them. 
 Mental worry and ill repute are threatened. Any confidential letter written to an intimate friend belonging to the opposite sex will fall into the hands of others, and the secret activities will be revealed.
As Mercury represents the postal authorities, the letter may be by mistake, delivered to a wrong person or at wrong moment. If Jupiter is not favourable, one may be sure that one day or other, the person will have to pay penalty to the Income-Tax department, especially during the joint periods of Mercury and
Venus.

Jupiter forming good aspect with Venus :
 These two planets are the brightest and are very strong benefics by nature. Hence the persons will be polite, dutiful, honest, chaste and faithful. They will have faith in occult science, in God etc. They will follow tradition and will never dare to break the law, nor will they contribute to breach of peace. They will cultivate universal love, both brotherhood and sisterhood. They will be just in their actions, and very hospitable. Charity, purity, piety, equity and equanimity are bestowed on the persons having this beneficial aspect. One will have the desire to have higher studies with facility and opportunity to study. 
 Success is also assured in their ventures. Good health and smooth life for a long number of years also
presaged. vill be able to get good financier, who will
be honest and ever helpful. Much gain and success in business are assured, One can prosper in court of law, income-tax, sales tax, etc., bank, women's college; honour and reputation will be on the increase; one may become the trustee of a temple; director of any company dealing in luxurious commodities, manager or cashier in the Transport department. By marrying one in high circle, one'g position and finance will suddenly imrpove. One can enjoy all fruits of life in this world and also be pious and God-fearing; useful investments, rise in career, birth of child, and good luck are indicated.
If Jupiter happens to be the significator of wife or husband, she or he may be born in Poorvashada star or Visakam first three quarters in Libra sign. The lucky period will be between 26th December to 10th
January, or 7th November to 7th November to 7th 
 November.

Saturn forming good aspect with Venus: One will consider deeply before launching an enterprise. Fertile imagination and farsightedness, steadiness and perserverance, honesty and sincerity will make one very good to plan and scheme. The native will hold any responsible position of trust. He will meet all expenses which are reasonable. He will be economical, prudent, and frugal, and not miserly. Legacy through marriage, gain through investment on lands, garden, nursery, stocks and shares business relating to coal, mine produce, leather, skin and hides, cotton textiles and prosperity in mine-engineering, etc. Good aspect of Saturn to Venus shows marriage in proper age and also mutual love between the couple. But adverse aspect will threaten either with delay in marriage, denial or disapointment, or both the partners may seek satisfactory pleasure with strangers, old people, widows, widowers, etc. The moral backbone will be lost. There will be financial loss, domestic worry, separation, bereavement disapointment, etc. III-health, eczema, venereal troubles and leprosy will be contracted. There will be great difficulty in inheriting property. There may be appointment of a guardian. Or the father may write out a will and leave the property in the names of the person's children and will deny the native all rights. The native's position will be lost. There will be scandal. Reversals and downfall are certain.
 Even good friends will shun the native's society. One may be charge sheeted for bribery, dishonesty, falsification of accounts, favouritism, etc. One may be prosecuted for debauchery or drink. The native may have litigation, and divorce the partner.
Generally, those, who have the bad aspect between Venus and Saturn, will first have a spectacular rise in life, and finally they will suffer from from a greater fall. Saturn represents grave. So, the evil 
 Saturn will see that the person is one foot in the grave.

Venus receiving good aspect from. Rahu and

 Kethu: As Rahu and Kethu do not own sign, find out in which star and in which sign they are. The lords of the star and the sign are to be considered. Consider as through the lords of the star and the sign are individually aspecting Venus. Both the results will be enjoyed, especially in the period of the lord of the star and the sign during Venus Dasa or Venus Bhukthi.

Venus receiving good aspect from Uranus:-The person will have an attractive personality. He or she will be exceedingly magnetic, especially to the opposite sex. The native will also attract a host of friends who are in power and who will be helpful to him. In any competition, he will come out successful due to his magnetic and charming personality.
Mentally he will be always alert, active, bright intuitive quick and also inspirational. The aspect gives love of art, music, poetry, discovery and research; when the native meets a person suddenly, he will fall in love with him or her and he will be happy as though 
 Gandharva Vivaham has taken place; Uranus will assist him or her by this aspect. For every quick and sudden consummation, this favourable aspect is needed. One will be much attached to the other as the eccentricity of Uranus is toned down by the soft and peaceful Venus.
Marriage will be a happy and harmonious one. 
 There can be no trouble or jealousy through courtship or wedding. One will not be so hasty as to commit a mistake and divorce later, like Dhusyantha who ought to have had both the beneficial aspect of Uranus to 
 Venus and also evil aspect from Mars and Saturn to 
 Venus.

Railway, air travel, research, fine arts, investments, speculation, etc., will be the source through which one will be able to make money. It is also likely to have a windfall when Uranus forms again good aspect with Venus during its transit, and at the time when Venus dasa or Venus bhukti and a favourable sub period operates.
Venus” receiving good aspect’ from 
 Neptune.  The person will be versatile; Neptune gives fertile imagination and deep emotions. He will be pure and will maintain a sterling character, provided there is no evil aspect from Mars and Saturn to Venus.
 Neptune indicates that the partner is reliable and faithful, mostly due to the kindness, sympathy and love. One may have interest in the mystical subjects, or be a successful speculator or a good musician, if Neptune is in the 5th house. Neptune gives proficiency in instrumental music, especially when one does Raga 
 Alapana. For Swaram, Mercury also must form good aspect. Cinema film producers are very successful through those pictures which are released at the time Neptune, by transit, forms strong beneficial aspect with both its original position at the time of birth, and also with Venus in the radical chart. Neptune gives confidence that there can be disapointment, complication, deceit or
danger of scandal in love or marriage. Even in the business partner cannot be playing fraud. Only when 
 Neptune forms evil aspect, one has to exercise care in food and drinks. One is avoid narcotics. There is always the danger from ptomaine poisoning. 
 Misplaced confidence will land one trouble. There will be danger through secret organisations. It is advisable not to have a partner and also any private secretary in ‘business, as they may be cheats and bring in mental worry, financial loss, ill repute, etc. One will be wasting money through ladies without any benefit or pleasure.
But Neptune forming good aspect, shows that the native will be successful, join happy society, spend a mirthful time, engage in devotional practices, and enjoy extreme prosperity.