WHAT THE TWELVE SIGNS SIGNIFY
The physical features, characteristics, marks, health, finance and profession indicated by each sign are dealt with in general. Planets occupying these signs will modify these results. Only when there is no planet in the sign, can the effect of these be noticed without any deviation. The qualities of the sign will be manifest, all the more, if its lord were also to be posited therein. Like a coin which has two different sides, each sign presents two characteristics - good and bad. 
 Depending on other factors, these characteristics - will be modified. Benefics like Jupiter (Guru), Venus Sukra in the Ascendant (Lagna) mitigate the evil and offer more of agreeable results. Malefics like Saturn and 
 Mars in the Ascendant spoil the good nature and bring out the latest bad qualities into action. Similarly, the general physical features indicated by each sign may vary from the normal, due largely to the planets occupying the sign.

ARIES - MESHA
Aries - Mesha - is the first or head sign of the 
 Zodiac. It commences at the vernal equinox and extends upto exactly 30 degrees.
Aries is an equinoctial sign. It is fiery and hot by nature. It is termed bestial and sterile. It is a movable or a cardinal sign. It is said to be masculine or positive and is of short ascension.
Aries is generally symbolized by a Ram, being in nature rash, combative, lascivious, springy and hardy. It is called an Oriental sign denoting the beginning of the Right Ascension. Aries represents head and face in the human body. It is ruled by Mars. Sun gets exalted in this sign. Saturn is debilitated, whereas Venus is said to be in its fall in this sign, as it is the 7th sign opposing Libra owned by Venus.
According to sayana system Sun enters Aries on 21st or 22nd March whereas according to Nirayana system Sun enters on 13th or 14th April.
Physical appearance : Persons born under this sign are of middle stature. They posses a lean and muscular body. They are neither stout nor thick. Their complexion will be ruddy and they have a fairly long neck and face. Their head will be broad at the temples and narrow at the chin. They have bushy eye-brows, eyes grey to greyish brown with sharp sight. Their hair will be wiry, color varying from dark to sandy.
Mental Tendencies : As Mars rules this sign, the people born in Aries will be ever active and ambitious. They are bold and impulsive. If the ascendant is afflicted they will be rash and aggressive. Beneficial aspects give them confidence and courage. They always aim high and are ever enterprising.
Characteristics : Aries, being the first sign of the zodiac, persons born under this sign will desire to be at the head of all affairs. They do not relish suggestions from other but act only according to their 118
own judgment. They do not like subordination but wish to be the leaders in thought and action. They are best fitted to guide, control and govern others if the ascendant receives beneficial aspects. Being a positive sign, it gives determination and force of character. Arians act quickly with unbounded self- confidence. They have much of executive ability and uncompromising spirit. Being born in a movable sign, they will not hesitate to change whatever they dislike and whenever they want. They cannot wait patiently for opportunities to come but will go out and create them to fulfill their desire. As Aries is a fiery sign, their mind will be pregnant with ideas and their desire will be to execute them at once. They are best fitted to deal with any situation or emergency. They can never sacrifice their personal desires for others, If the sign is afflicted, the Aries born will be drawn into a quarrel and if they do not fare well, they become fretful and boisterous. They will try to stick to their own views. 
 They will under-estimate others. They are over- optimistic. They overshoot the mark, and will over- trade in business. They are not the people who look before the leap. Consistency is not their virtue. They will take up fresh enterprises before completing those on hand. Even if they occupy a humble and subordinate position, they will try to be at the head of some branch of their Work. Very quickly they scheme, plan and execute with the ultimate object of directing others. If Aries is afflicted, the native's enthusiasm is converted into fanaticism, and boldness into foolhardiness. They are ardently demonstrative and passionate. Evil planets in the ascendant make them aggressive,
proud, arrogant, headstrong, hasty and quarrelsome. 
 They will be egoistic with the 'I' predominating in them. 
 They are tenacious and purposeful. Their accent is on the ends and not on the means.

Health and Disease : Generally good health will be enjoyed by the Arians. They will have enough of immunity from, and resistance to, infectious diseases as Mars rules the sign ; but they are prone to minor injuries frequently and also to serious accidents occasionally, particularly to the head. Wherever there is an element of risk, the Aries born should exercise care, especially when they drive cars or work with sharp instruments, etc. Both men and women born in this sign will be fond of sports because they are capable of sudden spurts of energy. They are better fitted for games lasting only for a few minutes than for matches lasting for a long duration.
Aries indicates the head. The sixth house therefrom is Virgo which denotes digestive system and also the nature of ailment to the Aries born. 
 Therefore they are liable to suffer from headaches, burns, inflammatory diseases, affections of the brain, neuralgia, coma, high fever, colic pains, paralysis, apoplexy, pimples, insomnia, ringworms, migraine, smallpox, malaria, affection of the brains, thrombosis, etc.
They require plenty of rest and sleep and also good food with plenty of vegetables. They have to relax and control their feelings. They should avoid worry, excitement and anger. As a patient, the native becomes impatient of sickness and tries to have a
quick recovery. They have to avoid stimulants and take less of meat.
Aries indicates the bones of the skull and face except the nasal one. It also represents the muscles like occipitals, deprimens articularum, buccinator, frontals, attolens, temporates and zygomaticus. 
 Arteries like internal carotids and temporal carotids are also shown by Aries : so also the cephalic veins..
Finance and Fortune : Though people born in this sign are not for amassing wealth, yet they have a desire to earn much and spend likewise. They may lose money through impulsive purchases and rash investments. They always think only of today and never of tomorrow. Evil planets in Aries show that they start in a flash and end in a crash. They never balance their budgets. On a later date, they realise. The best remedy for them is to think before they act. They will advise others in spending and saving, but will not follow.
Romance and Marriage :Arians are extremely frank and enthusiastic even in love. Their good nature and charm attract the opposite sex. They take practical steps. They want freedom, adventure in love and everlasting affection. If the dominant nature is softened, they can be happy. Further, they should not be impatient, and emotional. They should stick on to the old lover. ;
The Aries wives (ladies born in Aries) will be witty and independent. If Aries is afflicted, she will have pride not only in her appearance but also in the domestic environments. She will always speak high of her own
family. Jealousy and pride are her outstanding weaknesses. She will always expect her husband to attend on her, speak high of her and never praise anybody else especially in her presence. She will prove to be a good host. She will love only such a man whom she can admire. If perchance an Aries lady marries a simple man, she will over power and subdue him in all activities. Since these ladies will be a little aggressive, It is for the husbands to be patient and tactful in dealing with them. Aries women become very romantic and are given to sudden spurts of enthusiasm.
Husbands born under Leo or Saggitarius will be able to cope with the Aries ladies. Libra borns will tone down the fiery nature of the Aries natives and purchase peace at any price.
Aries husbands will prove to be very desirable partners. They usually choose beautiful, clever and good wives. Whenever Aries borns happen to be in a mood, they prefer to be generous and bountiful. 
 Without any planning and without having money on hand, they will make impulsive purchases on credit. 
 Therefore those who marry Aries borns, should always save a portion of what the husbands give them.

Domestic Environment : People born in Aries love their home and family. They will always try to be in the midst of their family members. They try to keep the house neat. They are excellent hosts and keep good company. They never lack in friends who will pay visits often and keep them cheerful. They want it.
Profession : Aries indicates such of the professions which Mars rules. If the planet which denotes one's profession by owning either the 2nd or the 6th or the 10th house in one horoscope, occupies
 Aries in Rasi or lord of the house occupies, in navamsa, Aries or if Aries happens to be the second or the sixth or the tenth house and the lord Mars is very strong, then any of the following will be the profession of the native.
Army officers, captains in the army or in the navy, soldiers, defense department, surgeons, butchers, barbers, police, A.R.P. officials, chemists, bailiffs, thieves, smiths, tailors, cutlers, bakers, armorers, watchmakers, dyers, cooks, carpenters, gamesters, gunners, physicians, boxers, workers in iron and steel, officers of law, firemen, guards, detectors, mechanics, wrestlers, workers in lime and brick kilns, dealers in sports goods, read articles, workers in factory, industry, mills, etc.
Places : Aries denotes the ground for the cattle to graze, sandy soil, hilly ground, unfrequented places, hide-outs for thieves, a little raised plateau, etc.
Within the house, Aries indicates the covering, ceiling and plastering, stables for small cattle, pieces of land recently ploughed, etc.
Direction : East.
Products : Bombs, fireworks, heavy acids, rails, tractors, buses, motors, machinery, iron and steel,
reclamation of slums, wastelands, etc., and the crops cultivated in such areas.
Countries and Cities : Britain, Galatia,
 Germany, Lithuania, Lower Poland, Palestine, 
 Denmark, Syria, Judia (Lebanon), Burgandy, 
 Damascus.
Verona, Naples, Florence, Capua, Marseilles, 
 Burnswick, Padur, Saragossa, Leicester, Cracow, 
 Utrecht, Madras.
Handwriting : The handwriting of the Aries born will be stiff and rigid with sharp angles and narrow hooks. The words will be generally slanting to the right though occasionally they may be upright. As they write, the lines will be ascending and the words will be connected in groups of three and four. The strokes of the words will be thick and they will be separated lavishly. They invariably draw a long and thick line after signing their signature.
Lucky Day : Tuesdays, Saturdays and Fridays,
 Mondays and Sundays are fair. Other days are expensive and undesirable.
Lucky number : 9, 8 and 6.
Lucky stone : Blue.

TAURUS - RISHABA
It is the. second sign of the zodiac. It is also 30 degrees on Longitude and it extends from the 30th degree from Vernal. Equinox (or Mesha) 0 to 60 degrees. In Karthikai Nakshathra (or constellation) the second, third and fourth padas (quarters), Rohini
Nakshathra In full and Mrigasirisha constellation first
half (or the first and the second padas of Mrigasirisha) are contained in the sign Taurus (Rishaba).
-Rishaba is an earthy,fixed, feminine, moist, semi- fruitful, bestial sign of short ascension. This sign is symbolized by a bull both by Hindus and Westerners. 
 They say that the bull appears with unusual horns both on head and toes. It also appears with a decisive and determined look to go ahead and rush forward with' great energy,showing its stubborn and tenacious nature.
A few thousands of years ago the Egyptians celebrated May day festival probably due to the entrance of the Sun into Taurus which is referred to as "The Sacred Bull" and probably when the vernal equinox coincided with the commencement of Taurus. 
 May day festival with its Maypole and garlands may be their remains.
Taurus (Rishaba) is governed by Venus (Sukra) who is said to be the owner of this sign. It is the sign where Moon get, exalted. As Taurus is the seventh sign from Scorpio ruled by Mars (Mangal-Kuja-Sevvai- 
 Angaraka) It is the house of detriment to Mars. The fiery nature of Mars gets toned down by the owner, the passionate and peaceful Venus (Sukra).
Physical Features : The stature will be middle ; body plumpy ; forehead broad ; neck thick and stout ; eyes bright : hair dark ; complexion, clear: in appearance solidly built and stocky; shoulders big and muscles well developed.

Characteristics : Taurus (Rishaba) is the first of the earthy ; triplicity and the first of the fixed signs.
 Being earthy by nature, Taureans can put up with a lot of provocation. They can endure and be very patient. People compare a patient person who works steadily and waits for the results to come up at one time or the other only to 'Bhoomi', the earth. But, Taureans, when provoked to anger, become very wild with rage and they are dangerous like earthquake. They will be violent and unrelenting. They are slow and steady, plodding and persevering, patient and persistent, enduring and executive. They are conservative. They will never waste their energy.
Being a fixed sign, these persons will have strong will. They will be determined and dogmatic. Anything done is deliberate and well-thought-out beforehand. 
 They will not mind to bide their time till they feel that it is advantageous and wise to act. When this house is afflicted, the person will have the vices, e.g., laziness and self-indulgence. These are their faults. They may nurse such disorders producing fatal results.
As it is both an earthy and fixed sign, the person both in Taurus will have a sharp eye on his money, worldly possessions and impelling appetite for food (second sign of the Zodiac second house for food) and preferring sweets. He will worship money and those which money can buy. They concentrate their thoughts. They have immense power and will. They become worldly and take pleasure in the good things of life. They are fond of ease, comfort and feast. They live in their feelings rather than in their minds. If they were to energise their minds a little more and live little
less in their feelings, they will help themselves to maintain good health.
The persons born in this sign will be straightforward and natural. Their nature will be plain. 
 They do not jump to conclusions without considering the pros and cons. One can depend on their opinion as it will be unbiased and honest.
As Venus rules this sign, the person will be ambitious and cheerful. As it is the second sign of the
 Zodiac representing face, expression, etc., and as 
 Venus owns it, he will be ever smiling. He may be highly diplomatic. It's difficult to understand him.
Venus shows that he will come upon a legacy at any part of his life because he will command the good will and sincere affection of his relatives. Venus also indicates that he will be fortunate and Goddess 
 Lakshmi will bless him with ornaments, costly jewels, gems, furniture, conveyance and comforts. He will also be blessed with estates, garden etc, and his hobby also will be horticulture. He wit evince keen interest in such and lead a pleasant life. All pleasurable natural scenery will appeal to his mind.
He will prefer solitude and rural lire if Saturn lends its assistance by forming beneficial aspect. 
 Taurus being the second sign of the Zodiac, it includes one's speech. People born in Taurus have their knowledge and intuition deeply settled. They are not verbose. They formulate their owo opinions. 
 Generally they do not go wrong. They hold fast to their own opinions. They do not yield to others' suggestions or
orders. They will prove to be very stubborn and steadfast. They will argue and convince others; but to change their view, once formed, is out of question.
They will be very slow in accomplishment which is correct when certain circumstances need great deliberation; Anyhow they need more some speed to cope with majority of theft work without mulling matters over and over again. They are the best long-term planners. In spite of any opposition or criticism from others, they will carry out their original plan, fight it out and emerge victorious, triumphant and successful.
As Venus rules this sign, in love affairs, they will continue to be loyal and true to the one whom the person likes, even though there may be opposition or upsetting conditions. A little of self-control is necessary in early life : especially when Taurus receives aspect from Saturn or if Saturn were to be in the ascendant in 
 Taurus. For they enjoy the ‘fleshpots' and the pleasant things of life to such a great extent that they will have unbounded appetite. One is to try to lead a temperate life.
Venus gives taste in arts, music, sculpture, cinema, drama, etc. Yet, they are the lucky people who know the value of money ; how to handle it and never give away easily. They will be at ease only when they receive money, put it in the pocket or keep it in safe or deposit in the bank. They do not believe in mere hopes of making money or realising the entangled money on a later date. Though they believe that 'Haste is waste', yet to make money, they do not hesitate.

Weakness : One should not be so obstinate, nor slow, in action. Also one should not be so selfish nor vindictive by retaining anger for a very long time.
Health : Normally these persons have robust health. They will appear to have super-human strength.
 They are best adapted for mechanical and laborious pursuits. They appear to suffer from an over- abundance of life ; rather than a deficiency of it. Unlike others they are less sensitive. to pains. They will never admit physical disability. If they fall ill, they suffer for a long time without revealing it. Their recuperative powers are not satisfactory. Hence their recovery is generally slow.
Disease : Generally, whenever Taurus is afflicted one suffers from tonsils, diphtheria, pyorrhoea or from the affections of the throat, palate and neck. It also shows that one may ail from cold and apoplexy.
 Constipation, plethora and similar difficulties may be experienced as age advances. As Taurus denoted throat, it is that part of the body which is most susceptible to illness. As it is the second sign of the 
 Zodiac, pimples in the face and eye-sore always give trouble.
Finance : Patience and perseverance pays the
 Taurus borns. They will be able to accumulate and hoard money. They will be cautious while spending, especially when they are in need. When once fortune is made, they spend to their satisfaction, keeping a portion always in reserve even though they do not risk in money matters. Never will they squander unnecessarily. As Mercury owns both the second and
the fifth houses from Taurus, they have the gambling temperament also. Luckily they will often gain especially during Mercury periods. As they have patience and perseverance, they are able to put ona ‘poker face' easily, whenever necessary.
Generally, Saturn is held the worst malefic. But for people born in Taurus Saturn becomes a benefic by owning the most favourable houses nine and ten. 
 Houses 9 and 10 denote what meritorious deed one has done in the previous birth and what fortune one can expect in this birth. They work for material status. 
 They will invest on estates and grow fruits, flowers, tea, coffee; etc. They will have gardens and groves. 
 Mercury also shows that they will be able to get money for others. Hence they may be brokers, underwriters etc., to collect share capital for an industry or arrange with bankers for overdraft facilities. They are practical and build their fortune on a steady, firm and reinforced foundation. They don't take chances. They do not spend away to the very last paise of their income but always keep something in reserve. They will measure their success only from their savings.

Profession : As those born In Taurus desire to _be comfortable and enjoy life to the full, they always go in for the best-paid profession. They have great liking to trade in luxury goods.As Venus rules this sign, they deal in furs, cosmetics, scents, costly jewels and gems.
As it is the second sign of the Zodiac and as the second house indicates finance, they may be bankers, or one in the board of company. managements. Stock-
brokers, treasurers, cashiers, speculators, gamblers, race-goers are mostly born in Taurus.
As Rishaba is said to be the sign of agriculture (Krishi), they may be agriculturists, farmers, gardeners, nursery owners etc.
Venus being the chief governor for music, pleasure and social success, they will be excellent musicians. actors, film producers and owners of theatres. Also bill collectors, employees in the revenue or agricultural department, book binders, dress- makers, tailors, chemists, printers, decorators, insurance agents, bus owners, taxi permits, automobile transport owners are governed by Taurus. Those who deal in flowers, mirrors, glasses, mica, plastic, rubber, rice, cows, cattle, milk, dairy farm, ice-cream, parlour, silk, cotton, vegetables, petrol, sugarcane and sugar are also those who are born having that planet which indicates their profession of Taurus.
As Venus is feminine planet and the sign Taurus is also, feminine, one may be employed in girl's school and ladies club, Law court, Income-tax department, Sales tax department etc. Dealings in earrings, rings, watches, insulators, hats, shoes, leather, hides and skins, leather pocket books, purse, traveling bags, necklaces, garlands, canes etc. are indicated by venus.
When so many modes of earnings are attributed to Taurus. It is left to the ingenuity of the astrologer to judge by considering the other aspects : for instance, one is consider which planet occupies 
 Taurus ; which aspects the sign, or the lord of the 
 Sign, Venus etc.
For example, he who supplies boiling milk will have Mars, and the sign Taurus in any manner connected, so that Taurus denotes cow, Moon milk and 
 Mars the fiery planet, to boil it. But he who deals with ice-cream will have Saturn and Moon connected with 
 Taurus or Venus, its lord, so that Venus denotes cow, 
 Moon milk and the cold binding planet cools down and brings out ice-cream. Venus denotes silk; Venus and 
 Sun indicate silk with lace. Venus and Mars show the dealers in Rayon : Venus with Mercury indicates cloth merchants.
Saturn shows mineral products : Moon and 
 Saturn denote kerosene as Moon is watery : Venus, 
 Moon and Saturn indicate petrol as Venus shows refinement and is also the chief governor for motor cars etc.
Venus is Tejas ; beauty and Skin. Saturn is for the hair-growth. Sun for wool ; Mars for industry. Venus and Saturn show that one will deal in skins and hides as Saturn is the chief governor for longevity and indicates the dead. So Saturn and Venus indicate dead skin. Mars indicates industry. If Venus were to be in the twelfth house, then dealings in shoes is to be predicted as 12th house shows foot. Foot-wear dealers will have Venus, Saturn and. Mars as the planets indicating profession. If Venus is connected with second house it denotes money purse ; 3rd house shows hand-bag.
Venus, Saturn and Mercury show that the native will deal in exports and imports of leather goods. If 
 Sun also has any connection with them he will deal in woolen goods, carpets etc.
Venus is for scents and for beauty : If Venus is connected with Moon, he will deal in scents and scented oils ; If Venus and Moon receive aspect from 
 Mars, the native may manufacture scented soaps : If 
 Sun is also connected, it indicates medicated soaps; 
 If Venus and Mars alone are connected, they show scented powders. Venus, Sun and Moon denote Anjan for the eye or eyetex.
Venus, Mars and Moon in the 3rd and 12th houses indicate the fancy colours in liquid used to polish the nails like cutex.
Planets in Taurus indicating vehicle show that he will have four-legged vehicle ; Mars suggests that it will be run by motor ; i.e. there is mechanical contrivance ; Saturn or Lord of 6 connected with the planets indicating profession and Taurus show that he will be a taxi-driver.
In this manner one is to analyse and judge, it whatever profession they are, they will prove to be good administrators maintaining discipline and controlling others. They are hard to budge, If they once make a decision ; they will go ahead even though there may be opposition. If they have partners in business, it is advisable that the partners do not confront them with fresh ideas suddenly, off and on. They (the partners of 
 Taurus born) should wait, select a time and plant the seed. Carefully and cautiously they have to impress on the mind of the' Taureans ; allow time for them to accept the idea 'slowly ; then they themselves will come out with a little improvement or modification to the original idea, regard it as their own and finally put
the proposal into practice. In service, Taureans are found to be faithful to the end.

Domestic Environments : Men born in Taurus are good providers and the women are good home- makers. There will be happy and harmonious life. They have comfort, rest and peace at home. They like their own native land. Scenery will attract them. Peace, pleasure, prosperity, property, popularity and position mean much to them.
Taureans always supply sumptuous food and give feast to others. If they are not served similarly by the guest, they cannot tolerate. They decorate the house, keep furniture etc., tidy and maintain their home in good condition. 
 Marriage and Married Life : People born in
 Taurus are not generally impulsive. They take much time to take a decision in the matter of selecting the partner in life. If once they decide that a particular individual is ideal, they will stick on and will never leave a stone unturned till they come out successful. 
 Since the sign is an earthy, one, those born in the other two earthy signs or in the three watery signs will prove to be good partners contributing to peace, maintaining harmony and leading a happy life. 
 There may be romances for Taurus-born If they fall in love with any, they are faithful to them to the last. 
 Their emotions will be deer. They do not like to quarrel and they hate confusion’. The men born In 
 Taurus will have loving wives and the ladies born In this sign will have devoted husbands Love is real to them. They will always be fulfill their social and financial obligations. They will
always be affectionate, warm and ever-loving. They respond to kind treatment. They are flattered by luxury.
Divorce is rare. They will endure and suffer even untold miseries and never desert the partner. They will have such a feeling that the partner must be sheltered, looked after, attended upon, cared for and protected under any circumstances.
Taurus husbands adore their wives. They do not mind taking all pains to supply them whatever they want. They may have their partners born in a higher rank. They may not be already related as the lord of the seventh house is also lord of the twelth house. 
 They are reliable, generous and faithful. They will never neglect their house. They want their wives to dress nicely and look attractive. They wiil never find their domestic life tiresome, nor at any part of their life will they regret marriage and look back to the school days when they were bachelors and were free to do as they pleased.
Taurus wives will behave both like a mother and also a wife. They will appear to be reserved and calm. 
 They may doubt their husband's love and affection and they make no secret of their love. They will also be equally anxious to lead a happy harmonious wedded life.
They seem to care more for their homes than they do for themselves between husband and wife. They are more satisfactory and dutiful parents than they do as partners in life. The softer side of their nature endows them with a gentleness, a peacefulness and
a serenity which makes them the most desirable companions in any relationship of life. Their feelings are not easily hurt. If does not find hasty or ill-timed expression.
Children : Parents born in Taurus will appear to be strict with their children. They may even appear to be tyrannical to them. Anyhow their intentions are good and their children will, in the long run, realise it and will be much benefited. Therefore they are capable and conscientious parents who try to lead a noble family life. The children will always treat the parents with respect and bring them great pleasure and satisfaction. They will be well-built and intelligent.
Handwriting : As Taurus-borns have a great liking to beauty and art, due to Venus, their handwriting will be beautifully curved small and smooth. Being economical, they do not leave much space in between words or in between lines. They do not use offensive words. They are always mild and gentle. Invariably, they put a full-stop after their signature. They underline their signature with artistic hooks at both ends.
Day: Generally Friday is their lucky day. Grand success can be expected on Wednesdays; Saturdays delay the results, but do not deny nor disappoint.
 Ultimately on Saturdays, Taurus horns will be crowned with success. Tuesdays show extravagant expenses. 
 Thursdays denote gain through partner.
Monday, indicate short journey and pleasant correspondence. Sundays show rest at home. 
Lucky Colour : Pink, green and white.
Lucky Number : 6, 5 and 8.
Luck Stone : Sapphire, diamond and emerald.
Places : indicated Taurus are stables, cow- houses, Oattle sheds, furniture marts, pasture grounds away from the houses, deforested areas, cleared grounds, trees which are close by, low rooms and cellars.
Countries : Persia, Modia, Mozendaram,
 Azebijan, Caucusus, Georgia, Cyprus, Asia Minor, 
 Poland, the Archipelago. Holland, white Russia and 
 Ireland.
Cities and Town : Rhodes, Mantua, Dublin,
 Parma, Leipzig, Franconia, Palermo, Bhadra, Marwar, 
 Ghosha, the Yamuna, Matshya, Mathura, Surasena, 
 Panchala, Ayodhya, Kuru, Parlyatra, Mountain, 
 Kapisthala and Hastinapura.
Animate and Inanimate Objects : White flowers, reciters of sacred hymns, grammarians, miners, potters, priests, astrologers, observers of vows, merchandise, kings, wealthy persons, yogins, cartmen, cows, bulls, aquatic animals. agriculturists, mountains, men in authority, garments, fruits, gems, musicians and lovers.

Character To Be Corrected : So for the general indications of Taurus are dealt with in detail. They are applicable only when Taurus sign is not afflicted by any planet. But if the birth-sign Taurus receives adverse aspects, the person will have undesirable effects and results. It is necessary to cultivate some virtues and try to avoid the evil effect.
For instance, Mars and Mercury afflicting the ascendant Taurus, or Mars afflicting Mercury in Taurus or Mercury forming evil aspect with Mars in Taurus makes one a criminal, Saturn and Mercury give them the courage to commit forgery and cheat the bank.
Saturn alone afflicting the ascendant makes the native lazy and lethargic. They don't realise that life moves ever forward. They generally do not move along with it. So they are soon out of step and out of tune.
People born in Taurus, having these adverse aspects have to correct themselves, when alone they can enjoy the real fruits of life in this world.
Planets in each sign will modify the results mentioned above.

GEMINI -MITHUNAM
This is the third sign of the Zodiac. It is thirty degrees in Longitude and it extends from the 60th degree from Vernal Equinox (or Mesha 0 degree) to 90 degrees. Mrigasirisha third and the fourth padas, 
 Thiruvadhirai or Arudhra and Punarpushyam first, second and the third padas are contained in this sign.
Gemini is the first of the airy triplicity and also of the mutable signs. It is masculine and positive. It is classified as a barren sign.
Gemini is ruled by Mercury, an effeminate, but an intellectual planet. No planet gets either exaltation or debilitation in this sign. But Jupiter is said to be in its detriment in this sign as it is the house which opposes Sagittarius owned by Jupiter. 
 To Saturn and 138
Venus this sign is said to be friendly and to the other planets it is considered to be the enemy's quarters.
Physical Features : Gemini gives a tall, upright, straight body ; the hands will be long. The legs will be thin and the veins will be visible Complexion will be moderate, fair or dark, depending on the planet which rises then in Gemini at the time of birth. The eyes will be hazel and the look quick, sharp and active.
 Nose will be long.
Characteristics : Being an airy sign, persons born in this sign live mostly in the mind. They will be carefree and joyous and somewhat reluctant.
 Their mind will be positive and strong, They are versatile, restless and inclined to have changes often. 
 As Mercury is the lord of the sign, one will be inclined to be reading, writing and corresponding often. 
 They can understand people and adopt themselves readily to circumstances. They can offer advice, persuade and argue with others. They can explain the merits and demerits of a case, but they cannot command or manage successfully.
Being a common sign and the third sign of the 
 Zodiac, these persons will have a liking to travel frequently. These may be mainly short journeys by land. 
 They are always active with facile mind. They will always be considering the advantages and disadvantages of each case and hence decision will not be taken quickly.
Gemini is-termed as twins. Mercury, the lord of the sign is depicted as a boy, among all Gods, not
full-grown. In the ancient symbolic pictures. the twins were brother and sister. Mercury is, also said to be 'The Winged Messenger of God'. Mercury has both wings on its helmet and also sandals. That is why, ,Geminians are very quick. It is said that people with some important and big things to express, generally elect the time of Gemini as they have the faith that this sign will give sharp intelligence, adaptability and ultimately grand success.
Being a dual sign, it gives the native the ability to follow more than one occupation at a time and also to adopt oneself to new surroundings. One should avoid going to extremes. Geminians may be impulsively generous at times and_ also parsimonious with others. They have to avoid superficiality. Then they will have insight and capacity-more than enough- to do any work intelligently. They will have dual experiences in their life. These people can be relied upon in any emergency as they can respond to the necessities and requirements of the moment. They have a few faults as waywardness, fickleness and leaving their work unfinished. They will take up some work and while they are doing it, they will go on to another which also they are apt to leave unfinished. Therefore, they can be at their best when they cooperate with others and undertake to do any job. The dual sign makes them both generous and niggardly. They will gather courage, present a courageous front and assertive attitude even though they are highly timid and nervous. 
 It.is very difficult for others to understand them and their peculiarities. They are rather impulsive. It is the impulse that will decide which line of action
one will take. They can never stand any anxiety or worry, 
 They love diversity; like the air to which they belong ; they have to be moving from place to place or from one thought to the other. They refuse to be bound by rules and habits, They are pleased only when they act unexpectedly, rather than in accordance with convention.
If Moon can be compared to a mirror, Mercury may be compared to a lens. Those who are governed by Moon will simply repeat what they have crammed. 
 But Mercurians are persons revealing intellectual qualities and show all the signs of mental dexterity and supreme intelligence. They will understand, analyse, have a quick grasp with much retentive power and reproductive ability. Then mind will be logical and clear and they have quick mental action. They are always alert for any new idea and fresh interest. They are quick-witted and clever.
The house, Gemini, is called the house of oscillation and vascilation. So these persons are changeable. They are apt to diffuse their energies and spread their action on diverse subjects.
Being an airy sign ruled by Mercury (Budha), the native will be having much of curiosity and will seek after facts. He will go deep into all matters as though be is doing research. He will prove to be a good detective, a brilliant journalist, and an excellent schemer, They have the talent for language and Gemini being an intellectual sign, they have no difficulty in remembering things. They cannot concentrate on anyone subject. It is said that the Geminans have too
many irons in the fire. Their range of thought is very wide. If retrograde Mercury were also to rise at the time of birth, the native will prefer to sidestep the truth and enjoy a good joke. They cannot believe what they have not seen or experienced. Their viewpoint will always be reasonable. They can understand the other's outlook and adapt themselves to it. They are inclined to indulge in practical wit and ask many questions. They have an academic and teachable nature with a democratic attitude. They have a humane and genial personality with a fondness for good company. They can never remain in ignorance because they are not afraid of asking questions till they get a clear idea and understand it.
Weakness : No one can do things more easily than the Geminians. None can do them more gracefully ; and none can compete with them more successfully. But the weakness in them is they should have the deliberate determination to do their work and « stick to it till it is completed. They laCk concentration and quick decision. They should not give themselves up to petty strife.
The defect in them is that they are always hasty and anxious to know the results than and there. Once they have planted the seeds, they do not give chance for them to nature. They will water and nurture them but they will often be digging them up to see how far they have progressed. The other peculiarity with them is that they want only short cuts. They are able to carry out work quickly adopting improved methods. 
 Events will move faster in their life then in those of other persons. .
What is wanted : They should take rest, take plenty of exercise, breathe plenty of fresh air, eat conservatively and Cultivate physical and mental poise.

Health and disease : The Geminians are as active as their mind. They generally spoil their health by unnecessary and unavoidable worry and anxiety.
 Their thin built and nervousness give the impression to others that their health is delicate like a barometer. If they avoid mental strain, their health will be normally good. They should not overtax themselves by undertaking a large variety of work. If they relax and enjoy plenty of sleep, they can maintain good health.
As Gemini rules over the lungs, all the pulmonary affections are indicated by this sign, Cold, running of the nose, influenza, Bosonophilla, Pleurisy, Bronchitis, 
 T.B., all these seem to stem from his source. It also indicates shoulders and arms. Defect in these parts is indicated by malefics in Gemini. As the sixth house from Gemini is Scorpio, people born in. Gemini generally suffer from the diseases indicated by 
 Scorpio : Gemini-borns may complain of straniury, piles, fistula, affections of the bladder and excretory system. Fever and poisoning of the system is also indicated. Therefore they will have defect in the pulmonary system if Gemini is afflicted or they will have the diseases mentioned for Scorpio as it is the house of diseases for Gemini borns.

Finance and Fortune : There will be a lot of changes. They will enjoy life with a good fortune or suffer continuous misfortune depending on the nature
experience both privation and plenty during their. lifetime. There will be family disputes and these persons will not agree with their father. The Gemin borns will bring about their downfall by themselves. 
 Their secret connection to love affairs (if the planets 
 Mars, Saturn and Venus ruling 6, 8 and 12 houses also contribute) and attachments will bring loss and difficulties. Some may have progeny through such connections which will be a perennial source of trouble and headache.

Profession : Book-keepers, accountants, clerks, commercial travelers, salesmen, agents, representatives, editors reporters, journalists, lecturers, solicitors, attendants, postal employees, engineering, decorative artists, school teachers, professors, guides, millionairs, photographers, employees in transport, railway and airways, secretaries, personal assistants, tutors, cashiers, club-wards, treasurers of credit societies, translators, barristers, dealers in cycles, scooter, etc., stationery dealers, engineering contractors, messengers, embassy officials, counsel-generals, orators, platform speakers, etc.
Gemini being the sign favourable for oratorical powers successful brokers and diplomate are born in this sign. These persons are alert, active and industrious. They wish to have interesting and varied jobs. Their inquisitiveness, liking for talk and their sense of humour make them good speakers and ultimately they will be brought to the front of the public.
That is why they are capable brokers, intelligent agents, successful merchants, satisfactory secretaries
and efficient advocates. They can read the mind of their customers and know which they like and which they discard. Fully aware of their like and dislikes, they will be capable of selling articles at a good profit, convincing and pleasing the clients. Those who have 
 Mercury retrograde will prove to be good critics and with the aid of the Jupiter's beneficial aspect, they will be one of the leaders in journalism. If Mars also lends 
 Its assistance, they will have the fortune to own a press, as planet Mars stands for machinery, Mercury for paper and news and Jupiter for publicity and propaganda. 
 As it is an airy sign and Mercury indicates art and publicity, Mars and Gemini will produce radio- mechanics, assistants in the Defense Department, typists, compositors or mechanics in aeronautics. 
 Mercury stands for mathematics. The greatest mathematicians are born in Gemini with very strong 
 Mercury. 
 Gemini, being the house of oscillation and the third house of the zodiac, suggests that the natives will love travel and movement from one place to the other and also a liking for changes in their profession. 
 They will not have the inclination or pleasure to enjoy the sceneries but an inexplicable urge to be on the move. So they will be very good camp-clerks, traveling agents, traveling ticket-examiners, engine-drivers in the railway and guards. The difference between the driver and the guard is that for the driver, Mars will be strong and aspecting the house for profession (10th house) or the lord of the 10th house or in any manner connected with lord of 2 (finance), or lord of 6 (service) or lord of 10 (profession). But for the post of the guard,
Jupiter will be aspecting the planet in Gemini as 
 Jupiter is the protector. Generally Geminians are Jack of all trades. Being a dual sign, they will try to enhance their income by doing some side-business. They will be always on the look-out for new methods of earning which will bring them more money than what they get in any substantive post. A teacher may have tuition. 
 A permanent servant in an office may take up any agency and increase his income. A typist in an office will take job works beyond office hours. Or the clever 
 Geminian may attend to other work during office hours, take up his regular work late in the evening and claim overtime. Saturn's evil aspect and also Mars malefic aspect will tempt one and offer him courage to misappropriate. Hence they should never be allowed to handle cash. They should not accept the post of a booking clerk or cashier or bill collector. As Gemini people will be receiving vast influence, good backing and support, they can take up any post, stick to it, without vacillation and worry. Slowly and surely they will rise in affluence and worry. They are advised, however, to be economical and not stingy and to meet all expenses with cheer. Money will not pour in for them. But their earnings are normally, in most of the cases regular.

Domestic Environments : Gemini people will always be busy due to the frequent visits of business partners, customers, relatives and friends. They delight in entertaining them. Though they appear to be a little extravagant, yet they will manage their family well
 They have great liking to decorate their home and keep it in modern style. They will not tolerate the nuisance of the owner of the house in which they are put up if the
owner happens to be mean-minded and they will not mind changing then residence even frequently till they get a satisfactory one As Gemini people cannot keep idle without ever thinking of how to improve the house, they will be doing some thing or other to give comforts to all the members in the family. They are ever fair.
Romance, Marriage and Married Life 
 Geminians are capable of making friendship very quickly. So also they will find fault with them equally quickly. That is why they often fail to find a friend to their satisfaction even though they long for it. They do not wish to get themselveS tied to one, but prefer variety in life, for Gemini is a dual sign, and the natives will feel that variety is the spice of life. The more the romances, the more happy they will be, 
 Such people cannot be understood easily. They will baffle many of their associates as they break off association with them if it does not interest them. 
 Their affection is controlled by the mind more than by the emotions. They look on love from the intellectual angle and are often calculating or cynical.
Marriage is full of interest and exciting for them. 
 They are lucky if they get partners who are steady and accommodative. Marriage will be successful and delightful if the partner is equally intelligent. Both enjoy life by frequent short trips. The partner should be clever enough to appreciate the native's alert and intuitive mind.
Gemini males need such wives who will always say 'Yes' whenever husbands wish to have change of surroundings and environments. The partners should
not take their flirtations seriously. The natives are so clever that they will end any romance if they feel that it is a source of expense and loss. These people will leave their homes if they find that they are having over- bearing wives. They are unable to put up with constant pressure from the partners. Gemini brides are generally intelligent. Their strongest appeal is mental companionship, and they do not wish to be more house-keepers. They will not give up their outside activities even though they get married, especially if they are already in service or will equipped for any service. They do not fell happy if their husbands were to resent. These girls have to be more tactful if they wish for happy harmonious lives. As time passes on, they themselves will realise that they can have either of the two and will not mind giving up one and stick on to the other. For Instance, if they want to serve and be a career woman, they will neglect the husband. But if they desire to lead a respectable home-life, they will give up their jobs and take to domestic life with utmost sincerity and devotion. They will be highly refined and will keep their homes tidy and arrange everything in apple-pie-order.
Gemini people will have good understanding with partners born in the other airy signs Libra and 
 Aquarius ; because these two airy signs will form trine aspect with Gemini. The other two signs favourable are sextile to Gemini, i.e., Aries and Leo. Hence partner born in Thulam, Kumbum, Mesha, and Simha will match satisfactorily, their artistic tastes and mental attributes being similar. Natives born in Libra and 
 Aquarius will have such an outlook on things which will 148
please the husband or wife. Leonians those born in 
 Simha'should give up possessiveness and egotism. 
 Arians lack the cultural standard otherwise they are happy. Geminians will have to give up the curious trait which will hurt the partner; that is, their tendency to make use of the same words and expressions of love to two and even more attachments. When one comes to know of this the domestic life comes to an end in fireworks. 
 Children : The Geminians are fond of their children because they are loved by them. They cannot be very paternal maternal in their attitude towards their children. They may even feel that their children are a nuisance. So their bark will be worse than their bite.
 Their children need careful handling by the parents who have to understand them properly. Their minds will be very plastic and yielding and hence they can be moulded in the right direction by the parents. They will have much of intuition. If the parents are not true or try to force anything on their children, the latter will not take it all right.
Hand-writing : Gemini-barns will write a little above the line. The upper part of the letters will be well developed. The lines will be short, sharp and inclined upwards. Their writing will be thin and loopless. They will not underline their signature and try to finish their letters quickly or if they underline, they will draw two lines one below the other.
Lucky day : Wednesday is ruled by Mercury who owns Gemini. Thursdays will prove to be lucky ones. Saturdays indicate much of difficulties, obstacles, and loss. Sundays offer short journeys and
only on those days they clear off the arrears in their correspondence. Mondays will show increase in their income. Fridays denote pleasurable pursuits and pleasant functions or expenses. On Tuesdays there may be difference of opinion and even disputes, but on Tuesdays only, there will be victory over enemies. 
 The most Lucky day will be Thursday, and next to it only will be Wednesday.
Lucky colour : Green and Yellow. Avoid Blue and Red.
Lucky number : Five and Three, Fourteen,
 Twelve, etc.
Lucky stone : Emerald and Yellow sapphire.
Places indicated by Gemini : Walls, plastering, coffers, chests, trunks, suit cases, barns, store-houses for earn, hills, mountains and high places, play-houses, dining-rooms, schools, nurseries, places of learning.
Countries : The West of England .the United
 States of America, Africa (north-east of Tripoli). Lower 
 Egypt, Slanders, Lambardy, Belgium, Wales, Canada, 
 Armenia, Lower Egypt, Flanders, Sardinia, Brabant.
Cities and Towns : London, Versailles,
 Nuremburg, Plymouth, Melborne, San Francisco, 
 Mentz, Loraine, Bruges, and Cordove. 
Animate and Inanimate objects : Railways, trams, buses cars, taxis, aeroplanes, parachutes,
newspapers magazines, publications, propagandists, newsprint, rope-way. watch making, calendar
¢ manufacture and distribution, microscopes and telescopes, Astronomical and optical instruments, raw cotton, green gram, and all commodities of green colour.
Character to be corrected : Lack of concentration give only, a shallow understanding. They are occasionally heartless and behave like a cynic.
 Don't waver. Don't examine much your own thoughts as you will become self-centred, and discontented. 
 Don't place yourself under any strain as it may lead one to be deceitful and dishonest. Don't try to do many things at the same time. Do one at a time. Do not pay heed to gossips as you will be easily influenced.

Cancer - Katakam
Cancer is the fourth sign of the Zodiac. This sign is also 30° from the 90th degree from Vernal Equinox (or Aries Mesha 0 degrees) to the 120th degree.
Punarvasu (Punarpushyam) 4th quarter (pada), 
 Pushya (Poosam) and Aslesha (Ayilyam) are contained in the sign Cancer.
Cancer is the first sign of the watery triplicity, the other being Vrischika and Meena. Its quality is cardinal, movable or chars. It is a feminine and fruitful sign it is a mute sign too, If, for instance, a malefic like 
 Ketu, happens to be posited in Cancer inthe second house, it indicates defect in speech ; the native may be even dumb. Cancer is one of the five Prishtodaya rasis (Mesha, Rishaba, Dhanus and Makara are the other four signs rising with there back). Cancer is a
nocturnal signs (Gemini) and all Prishtodaya signs are termed nocturnal signs. It is a tropical sign, and a sign of long ascension. When Sun is in Cancer. It will be in the northern hemisphere and so Cancer is also termed a northern sign.
This sign is symbolised by a crab. It does not mean that the crabs are fishy, nor the people born in 
 Cancer. But the type of people born between these dates are called the Teacher or the Prophet, because they can teach or preach or recite or act or speak in public and carry the gathering with them.
Cancer is governed by Moon, Jupiter gets exalted here, its highest point of exaltation being 5 degrees, while Mars is debilitated in this sign and is said to be completely debilitated (Paramaneecha) in the 28th degree. To Sun, Cancer is a friend's sign ; to 
 Mercury, Venus and Saturn, it is the enemy's quarters.

Physical features : Clumsy body, slender limbs and powerful claws are the peculiarities of the crab.
 People born in Cancer generally have a large upper body. As age advances, they acquire, by over-eating, a prominent abdomen. Face is wide between the ears, and the mouth will be large with nice teeth of chalky colour. The hair will be brown and the complexion pale. 
 As the limbs are extremely slender when compared to the large upper body, the whole body appears top heavy and one will walk with a rolling gait. Generally, dwarfs are born in this sign.
Characteristics : The ruling planet of Cancer is the Luna or the Moon, Juliet says, "Oh, swear not by
the Moon, the inconstant Moon, the inconstant Moon !". 
 But Professor Masefield says, "The Moon, the inconstant, keeps her will". Cancer-born nativeseare remarkable for a changeful life. They have many ups and downs. Moon gives them fertile imagination, delighting in strange scenes and adventures. They can adopt to other's nature and quickly absorb other's ideas. They are often emotional and over-sensitive and also sympathetic. They are somewhat sentimental and talkative. Due to extreme sensitiveness, there will be a high degree of nervous irritability. They ably move the public to gain some position of wealth or honours. Just as one can see the Moon either waxing or waning, either as Full Moon or as New Moon, so also one-can find the Cancer-borns timid on some occasions and very courageous under other circumstances. 
 Generally, they are timid to face physical danger, but are brave in mental or moral attitude. Their temper is also changeable. Anger comes and goes in quick alternation.
Cancer, being the fourth sign of the zodiac and the fourth house, is indicates about one's domestic environments. Cancer borns are fond of home, family and its comforts. They have tenacious memory, especially for family or historic events. Fear of ridicule or criticism makes them discreet, diplomatic and conventional. They appreciate approbation and are easily encouraged by kindness. The ladies, born in this sign, are discreet and independent in many things. 
 They are very labourious, though somewhat exacting. 
 Their anger is shortlived and they hold no spite against anybody. As the fourth house shows estates, evil
planets herein show that there will be difficulty in acquiring wealth. It is also likely that inheritance is lost through relatives or through children or speculation or by love attachments and pleasurable pursuits. Such experience will be only in the first part of the life of the 
 Cancer-borns. In the latter part of their life, they will have grand success and prosperity. Generally, all 
 Cancer-borns inherit money, property, kingdom, etc., but it comes to them only with great tardiness, or in spite of various hindrances, impediments and obstacles. la advanced years, their children are often the source of protection.
Cancer is said to be the sign of sensitive people and mediums. The higher vibrations of Cancer give the endowment of clairvoyance and a keen feeling for art. So the Cancer-borns have the psychic and mediumistic faculty. Many magicians, mimics and actors are born in Cancer.
Most of the Cancer-borns are sensitive, retiring and unassuming. If they are ignored, overlooked or neglected, they become moody and also peevish. Like the elephant, they will never forget.
One will be lucky to have a partner born in 
 Cancer who will be romantic and imaginative. The 
 Cancer borns recapture the golden moments of the past and keep the partner cheerful and enthusiastic.
Cancer being a watery sign, the native can be easily influenced and will adjust to circumstances as water takes the shapes of the vessel in which it is kept.
Water is not compressible. So also Cancer borns, when coerced become very stubborn and determined ; they will not yield.
Cancer, being a movable and a watery sign, as water runs in a river, many Cancer-borns lead a wandering and restless life, thrown this way and that way, by emotions and imagination, by which they are completely ruled. They have rarely the necessary showmanship and push to come to the fore. Anyhow, 
 It is from the states and position of the Moon at birth that the opportunities and chances can be reliably assessed.
In love affairs, once their love is given or their affections centered they are strong and true. They will never give up unless the partner does something very drastic. Generally, they pour out boundless affection. 
 That is why the relatives and friends enjoy real happiness in being underneath the Cancerian's roof. 
 The Cancer-borns are famous for true hospitality.
They tend to miss many an opportunity, being in the habit of pondering over a thing over and over again and put off the requisite action promptly at the proper time. When they are ready to move, they will find that the chance has slipped away. They will be undecided as to whether to purchase a lottery ticket, or not, and pass on any weeks in this way and when, finally ; they decide to buy, they will find that the lottery had already been drawn. One will delay buying an umbrella or a raincoat but when he buys one, the rainy season would have come to an end. this should not be cultivated.
Cancer-born natives have the deep feelings of loyalty and responsibility, if they decide upon a plan, they stick to it with dogged determination ; success in their efforts is enjoyed ultimately. They are much more interested in getting small sums of money from a variety of sources than a big and sizable amount from one source. Anyone, getting a considerable lump amount in any single business, is not likely to be born in Cancer.
Cancer-born natives realize the fullest significance of money and they are a tittle too personal.
He may conquer the trials in his life, yet he does not forget them easily. They are ever brought to memory. A father who, from a humble beginning, rose- up to a high position later, will, even though he is affluent, will constantly keep before his children the poverty in which be once lived.
Cancer-born natives are ultimately fortunate. 
 They will appear open and frank at sight, but, in reality they are not so, as they hide much from others. They are impressionable and magnetic:
Characteristics to be corrected : He has to be patient. People born in Cancer, with Saturn rising in the Ascendant, alone will be patient. Mars rising in
 Cancer makes one short-tempered also. Hence patience and endurance are to be cultivated. Don't be very sensitive and extremely selfish. Changeability and indolence are the other weaknesses.
Health : Being the fourth sign of the Zodiac and one ruled by Moon, the health of the Cancer-borns will be fragile in youth, but as age advance, they will pick up health.
 Cancer rules the chest and stomach. As Moon owns this sign and it indicates one's worry etc., the chief cause of their physical troubles will be only worry. 
 They have to take care of both the pulmonary and digestive systems. If they control their mind, they can control their body with the help of a reasonable diet, proper physical care, etc. They suffer much but they can also endure much. They should not let their love of liquids lead to over-indulgence in the alcoholic kind. 
 They have to guard against asthma, gastric disturbances and weak digestion. They should take care of the throat. Simple living is the best preventive. 
 They should satisfy thirst with water and not with alcohol. A few suffer from rheumatism and sciatica. 
 There are also indications of danger by falls and hurts from animals while traveling or residing in foreign countries.

Disease : Affections of both the lungs, flu, cough, asthma, bronchitis, pleurisy, tuberculosis, affections of the oesophagus, stomach, dyspepsia, flatulence, dropsy, ben-ben, nervous debility, fear complex, hysteria, Jaundice, obstruction of the bile, gall stone, worm and boilS on the chest just below collar bone.
Finance and profession : People having the influence of Cancer are best suited to a commercial career, especially to the trade of a caterer. Many manage their own restaurants, coffee tea stalls. Some
run general stores, grocer shops, fruit stall, etc. Those who enter into service are employed in hospitals as male and female nurses, matrons, managers and secretaries in business, hire purchase regulators, undertakers, furnishers, etc. As Cancer-borns are historians and are interested in things of the past, they deal in antiquities ; they collect curios. They get employed in the history section or archaeological department at least they will deal in second hand articles.
Cancer being a watery sign, Cancer-borns are dealers in things derived from water : couches, pearls, fish etc. They also work as great sailors, sea captains, explorers and in the navy and submarine. Some may serve in the shipping department, and take active interest in imports and exports, transport or travel! and in concerns dealing in milk products.
As Jupiter gets exalted in this sign, many born in this sign become successful preachers, inspiring teachers, eloquent orator, platform speakers, State ministers and popular advisers.
Mars, getting debilitated here, indicates the krisans, agriculturists and those working in gardens. 
 Saturn in detriment shows that some will live by digging wells, excavating tanks or diving in the sea.
Cancer being the 4th sign of the Zodiac, the natives will be interested in developing Vedic and sacred texts.
Cancer-borns are careful where money is concerned. Being themselves very honest, they cannot
tolerate dishonestly in others. Their tastes are but modest and hence they do not defray expenses on extravagant display. They value money for what it is worth and are very prudent. They accumulate wealth by dint of their own hard efforts.

Domestic environments: Cancer-born natives are devoted to their family. They love their home wherever they live. The home and the garden always keep them engaged. They derive pleasure here alone.
 They collect old things and store them in shelves and kitchen. Though they make constant journeys, they are at home only when they are in the home. They do not mind taking trouble to make their life comfortable. They invite friends and attend on them to their fullest satisfaction. Cancerians will prefer to have their business in their residential quarters or very close to it as they prefer to be always at home surrounded by children and attended by a pleasing wife.
Friends and benefactors : As Cancer-born natives are hypersensitive and also unassuming, they have the great desire to acquire friendship but they do not have many long-standing and intimate friends.
 The Cancer-borns become moody and peevish whenever they feel that some friends neglect them or overlook them. But they win never forget the good done to them by friends and ever remain grateful to the core. 
 They wilt recollect the old days and ponder over the
benefits bestowed by friend.
Romance : For Cancer-born natives, life will be monotonous without romance. They will sacrifice their comforts, etc., and be very loyal and affectionate. But
they cannot impress upon the mind of the partner that they are sincere, honest and very true. The other six is prone to feel that the Cancer-horns are fickle minded and changeable while, in fact, they are remarkably stubborn and determined.
Marriage: Cancer-born natives enjoy their family life to the full and the home and the family are of great consequence to them. Marriage, therefore, will offer them an opportunity to have a well-settled life. 
 Husbands, born in Cancer, will be mostly affectionate, adjusting and accommodative even though, at times, they may be exacting and fussy. A Cancer-born native will generally contract marriage with a girl who will pave the way for domestic comfort and further prosperity. 
 They will manage to keep the wife cheerful and buoyant, pleasing her in all ways. They are devoted to their wives, and occasionally, they will interfere in household routine and there-by spoil their good intentions. Their trait is and this requires correction-that they are often dissatisfied and will be indulging in criticism of something or other.
Girls born in Cancer are genuine in their love and sincere in their devotion to husbands. Occasionally they tend to be moody. They feel satisfied with anything offered by their husbands. They prove good mothers to their children. They are adaptable and affectionate, dutiful and devoted, patient and pleasing, and sincere and sympathetic. They will spare no pains to attend to the needs of their husbands and offer them spiritual strength.
Children : Cancer-born natives take efforts to give good education to their children and they are
excellent parents in the matter of providing all facilities and comforts to them. They will go to the limit of sacrificing even their own needs, if necessary to avoid denial of their children's desires. They are never disheartened by the large size of their family. Their children also remain grateful, obedient, dutiful and faithful ; they have great energy, courage and independence. They are very frank ; they stand up for their rights and never submit to imposition. They are full of worries brooding over things that may happen, but they will never flinch in the hour of danger. They will perform deeds of heroism with a disregard of self which may amount to foolhardiness. Their mind will be cool, calm, collected and sharp.
Handwriting : Moon, the lord of the sign, being variable in nature, the handwriting also will be variable ; the formation of letters will be in different ways and shapes. Their letters will become large as they go on writing. When they are ina good mood. they draw wavy lines beneath their signatures.
Lucky Day : Tuesday will be the day of success.
 Fridays give pleasure and profit. Wednesday is good for journey, investment and expenses. Thursdays are good for contacting and arranging overdraft accounts. 
 To join a college for higher studies, or to go overseas or to contact foreigners, Thursdays will prove auspicious. Avoid Saturdays as disharmony, difference of opinion, depression, dispute, delay and denial will be the result generally. Mondays will give changeable temperament and success in efforts. 
 Sundays are pleasant to have the company of close relatives and also to gain money. Also one should be
lucky on the days when Moon transits in Mrigasirisha. 
 Chitra and Dhanishta (Avittam) star days. Poosam (Pushyam), Aslesha (Ayilyam), Anuradha (Anusham), 
 Jyeshta (Kettai), Uthrabhadrapada (Uttirattathi) and 
 Revati star days are to be avoided.
Lucky Colour : White, cream, red and yellow are lucky colours. Blue and green colours should be avoided.
Luck Number : 2, 7 and 9 are fortunate. 1, 3, 4 and 6 are good. 5 and 8 are to be avoided.
Lucky Gems : Diamond, pearls, .ruby, yellow sapphire. Avoid blue sapphire and emerald. Blue colour shows opposition and emerald will not allow one to save.
Places : Canals, rivers, lakes, seas, wells, springs, brooks, sinks, streams, ditches, marshes, trenches, wash-houses, cellars, pumps, fisheries, dairy farm, car stand, cart stand, common sewers, wharfs and fields near the sea.
Products : Milk and milky products, silver, tea, petrol, shipping, commerce, business, all liquids, fruits, coffee (liquid), rubber, greens, cabbage and mushroom.
Countries indicated : Holland, Scotland, New
 Zealand, North and West Africa, Mauritius, Anatolia near Constantinople, Paraguay and Sweden.
Towns and Cities : St. Andrews, Deptford,
 Manchester, Rochdale. York, New York, Algiers,
Amsterdam, Berne, Cadiz, Constantinople, Genoa, 
 Lubeck, Magdeburg, Milan, Tunis and Venice.
Animate and inanimate objects : Paspalum, plantains, Dhurva grass, fruits, bulbs, fragrant leaves, coconuts, barley, wheat, rice, sugarcane, forests, ministers kings, fishermen, honest persons, those who sacrifice their comforts, counterfeits, bulbs; roots, fruits, worms, reptiles, poison, robbers. husk-gram, physicians, etc.
Characteristics to be corrected : They have to overcome their timidity by their efforts with practical results. They should avoid inferiority complex. They should try to have something stable upon which they can pin their hopes. They should not be overanxious about the future. They should not be passive and lazy and should not pay attention to sentimentalities and vanity. They should not control emotions and develop the spiritual said. They should not be vindictive. And success will be in store for them.

Leo or Simha
Leo is also 30 in Longitude. It extends from 120
to 150 from vernal Equinox (or Mesha 0). Makam, 
 Poorvapalguni or Hubba or Pooram and first quarter or pada of Uthira Palguni or Uthiram star are contained in this sign.
Quality : Leo is the central sign of the fiery triplicity as Aries is the first fiery sign and
 Sagittarius is the third and the last one. Leo is a hot, dry, masculine, positive, bestial and barren sign. It is also a fixed sign and of ascension.
Leo is ruled by Sun. Only Sun and Moon, the two luminaries govern one sign each, Leo and Cancer respectively. Other planets, excluding Uranus and 
 Neptune, own two houses each. In Astrology the luminaries, Sun and Moon, are "Planets". Moon, Mars and Jupiter are said to be in friend's quarters when they are in Leo. Saturn, Venus and Mercury are considered to be in enemy's camp if they transit in 
 Leo. Uranus gets weakened here whereas Neptune gains strength. No planet gets exalted or debilitated in Leo.

Physical Features : One born in Leo will have well developed bones and broad shoulders and forehead. He will be tall, well-built and muscular. Never will he be plumpy or ugly and be a Lambhodhara. His stature will be full and his appearance majestic, imposing, commanding and dignified, as Leo is a fixed and fiery sign or the royal kingly sign. Complexion will vary according to the exact position of the ascendant, and planets occupying or aspecting the ascendant (or Lagna).
The personality of a person born in Leo will be found as mentioned above, if the ruler of the sign. Sun, 
 Apollo, occupies it. But this external expression, characterising the person, distinguishing him from the others, enabling us to identify him gets modified due to the influence of the planets in the ascendant, the occupation of any sign by the ruler of the ascendant, and the various aspects from the other planets both the cusp of the ascendant and its lord. Every individual has some difference from the other and it can be noticed even among twins born on the same day and
in the same Lagna, due to this modification ; otherwise there will be only twelve patterns and to identify each individual will be a problem.

Characteristics : Sun owns Leo-Sim ha,
 Masefield says "The Sun still scatters out his store, It is true and the people born in this sign are noble, large- hearted, magnanimous and generous. Sun is necessary for the life and the growth of both the vegetables and animal kingdom. But, whenever Sun becomes furious, it destroys them. Darkness envelopes in the absence of Sun ; when once Sun rises, none knows where the darkness has gone. 
 Therefore the people born in this sign are helpful to mankind and other creations of God. Sun removes ‘their darkness, ignorance and evil thoughts. It is said that Sun represents the Government. Those who have good aspect of Jupiter to Sun, invariably are assisted by, protected by and saved by the Government. Saturn forming evil aspect to Sun shows that such persons will be hated by, chased by and punished by the 
 Government. So, either to lead a healthy and happy life or to face difficulties and lead a miserable life depend's on the aspect to Sun and to the Cusp of the ascendant Leo. Accordingly, the characteristic of the person will get modified.
Sun is the King of all the planets. It is masculine. 
 So, the Leonians have dignity. They will have great faith in all friends and relatives and confide everything with them. They are capable of inspiring affection and admiration and have their purpose served by the willing co-operation of their colleagues and subordinates.
Generally Leonians become the head of a show, registrar, ruler, chairman, host, hostess, managing director, administrator and chief of any organisation and continue for a long period. At the same time these persons never hesitate to Issue an order or ordinance to protect the interest of the mass. They do not talk 
 Much- The main characteristic is the habit of silence. 
 They leave all the taking to others. They will hear very patiently all the complaints even from the menials and also pay heed to every rumour. But the judgment will bewise. They have the large-minded tolerance. They are endlessly energetic in serving their people. They will Always forgive and forget the mistakes, sins, errors 
 And ‘deficiencies of others. They desire to be honoured. But there is no false prestige in them. They mingle with people holding high offices and also tmenials. Since they trust everybody, it is not likely that ;they .are cheated and disappointed as they do not ‘discriminate. They live in a world of their own creation and nothing appears to be great for their ideality.
Sun is worshipped during its transit from one sign to the other, especially during the time when it passes the Vernal equinox, as Vishu, or New Year's day etc., - when it enters Cancer as Dakshinayana ; when it enters Libra in Thula month and when it passes on 
 Capricorn as Makara sankranthi. Just as Sun needs the feasts and sacrifices celebrated in its honour, so also the people born Leo are pleased by the praise of ethers. 
 Anything can be had through a Leonian, if one honours him and speaks high of him in his presence. 
 Generally, Mercurians are the favourites of the 
 Leonians as they will not mind adopting those
measures which will please them, and also mention that the Leonians have organising powers and they are constructive, inventive, magnanimous and ingenious. They will take advantage of Leonians who are susceptible to flattery which may tend to become an exaggerated Ego. Therefore don't fall a victim to flattery but correct yourself by remembering the old adage that, "He who has the greatest authority seldom shows it".

As Leo is a fiery, and a fixed sign, it others authority and ambition, brilliance and boasting, Clever action and commanding, dignity and domineering energy and enthusiasm, faith and fame, glory and grace, hopes and honour, intellect and inspiration, joy and jubilation, kindness and kingliness; loyalty and leadership, magnanimity and majesty, pomp and pride, respect and royalty, stately and scrupulous, vitality and vigour, warmth and zeal.
Leo being the 5th sign of the Zodiac, there Will be an inordinate zeal and enthusiasm for sports and speculation. One will be interested in the pleasurable pursuits. In him, the higher emotions are the main centre of activity. He may take interest in music, opera , games ...etc.
Leo being a fixed sign, the person may be, obstinate or indifferent as there will be the firmness and fixity of purpose. He is at his best only when there are handicaps and obstacles. He has considerable will power to win his way to his entire satisfactions. 
 Having full faith and hope, he can accomplish and achieve his aims by persistant determination
Leonians are frank, open and just. Their outbursts do not last long, just like the extreme heat of the Sun. Leonians are noble and lofty in character. 
 They scorn the mean, sordid and puny actions. 
 Never will they stood to do a low act even when they get irritated or when there is the strong urge or self- interest. They do not hesitate to serve those whom they love even if they have to forego their comforts and everything for their loyal and true friends. They never do anything halfheartedly.
As by nature they are authoritative and commanding, they want to be at the head of things, bass over others and be a leader. They dislike subordination.
They will help everybody voluntarily. They will also donate or do charity whenever it appeals to them. But they resent such people who persistently ask for something. They do not, by nature like those who make any demand upon the Leonians.
Saturn forming good aspect with Sun or the ascendant Leo avoids giving way to fits of temper and over-exertion, so that there is no ill-effect on the heart. 
 They will try and rise above any depression or sorrow they may have. It will protect one from committing mistake and one will not be dictatorial and overhearing. They will guard against self-deception, false pride, hazardous speculations and any trouble. 
 They will never rub on the wrong side or assert themselves at the wrong moment. 
 If Mars Afflicts Sun or the ascendant, the nature of the person will be changed. He will become
bombastic, domineering and blustering. He cannot be trustedin any department of life. If he marries anybody, he will prove to be unfaithful, amorous, disloyal, mean and short-tempered. Good. aspect of Mars gives courage and grand success. Aspect of Mars and 
 Saturn to Sun is very important. Adverse aspects will offer bitterest experiences in life. Remember the brightest light will always cast the deepest shadow.

Weakness to be corrected :
Generally Leonians do not consider both sides of the question. It is advisable to take other's views, ideas and suggestions.
Whenever the Leonians are crossed, they become extrovert. They will roar like a lion and get into trouble especially during the sub-period of that evil planet which afflicts Sun.
Do not forget that charity has to begin at home. 
 Over-liberality, keeping one ever in wants, is also not desirable. Sun never retrogrades and retracts its steps. It is ever in forward motion. So also these people will go ahead, without considering the past and also the future. It is advisable to hold up one's desires and aims if the environmental conditions are restricted.
One should not be hasty and get irritated, before the persons whom he had helped, show their gratitude.
Avoid forcing conclusions at one’s own risk and never be arrogant. Try to have an attractive home. 
 Manage to maintain a comfortable-sized bank position. 
 Do not spend away all you have and all you get.
Remember that big enterprises will move slowly. 
 Don't, be hasty. Take others advice. Consider both sides of a question. Be patient. Proceed steadily. 
 Don't be carried away by other's flattery, a flattery is the food of fools. Guard against the subtle influence of flattery. Try to be more detached in your feelings.
Don't try to dominate all the time as others also will desire freedom. Don't carry anything to an extreme. Though one will be careful in dress, one should not be a slave to the ever-changing fashion.

Health and disease : Generally these people should have a splendid constitution. Even if they fall ill, they tend to recover rapidly from any illness. But they are easily alarmed, whenever, sickness overtakes them.
Leo indicates the heart, the spinal column, spinal marrow nerves and fibre. Leo influences the bone, dorsal vertebrae. Interspinal muscles are controlled by this sign, Anterior as well as posterior coronary, Aorta, 
 Vena Cava are ruled by Leo.
Therefore heart disease, palpitation, Spinal meningitis, Syncope, locomotor ataxia, etc, inflammations, sunstroke, giddiness pestilence are other disorders. Epilepsy, rheumatic fever are the diseases from which one may suffer, whenever the ascendant is afflicted by Mars and = Saturn respectively. As Aquarius opposes Leo and Capricorn is the 6th counted from Leo malefics in Capricorn and Aquarius can cause swelling in the ankle followed by heart disease,
Jupiter in Leo will protect one from any surgical aid. If Mars afflicts it will lead to coronary thrombosis or surgical aid.
As Leo rules the heart which is the vital part of the body, temperate living is absolutely necessary. One has to avoid drinks, beverages, stimulants, etc. But one is to take balanced diet. That is why our ancients were very particular to have a 'Sathvic' diet.
Finance and fortune : Leo is symbolised by the
 Lion which is the King of the animals. Therefore one's natural instinct is ever to seek for the highest position and mostly, one has it rightfully. One will try to deal with large issues. One will leave the routine, monotonous drudgery and minor details to subordinates.
One is by nature a spendthrift even when poverty may threaten him. One will be able to face any hard time. Generally, fortune favours Leonians when they are young. They will have sufficient resources. Yet, because they spend lavishly, their bank position will be deteriorating as age advances. Leo being the 5th sign of the Zodiac, one will be tempted to gamble and speculate. Luckily for them, their risks will amply reward them. Speculators are very liberal when they give gifts to others. Nor do they hesitate to lend financial assistance to the needy. One will please himself with the sweet smile of those to whom be presents costly
ones. Also one will feel proud when he thinks that others borrow from him and approaches him for a favour. 
 Profession : Sun, the ruler of this sign Leo, will influence in directing one's choice of the profession. It favours high positions in commerce or Government.
As Leo is a fixed sign, one may have a fixed income, security of service under the Government, etc. 
 It is the 5th sign of the Zodiac. So one earns through speculation, music, theatre, opera ; being a fiery sign, one may be a jeweller, goldsmith or one working in precious metals. As this sign gives executive ability and tireless application to work, one will be fit to 
 Manage great enterprises. Presidents, managers of corporations, managing director of concerns, officals, superintendents, directors, captains, sales managers are born in Leo. Planets forming favourable aspects specify the nature.
If Mars is favourable, it makes one a soldier, surgeon, chemist, dentist, barber, butcher, worker in iron, copper and with instruments - Mars and Leo favour the Defense Department and warlike pursuits.
Mercury produces sales managers, share- brokers, ambassadors, councillors, auditors, engineers, architects, etc. Jupiter forming favourable aspect with Leo produces lawyers, judges, priests, bankers and physicians.
Venus in Leo indicates those in the administrative department of transport, travels, food, agriculture and those who deal in glass, cloth, silk, provisions and luxurious articles.
Saturn favours mines, coal, wood, estates, lead and plumber or menial posts.
Thus depending on the aspect received, the nature of the profession is to be judged.

Domestic environments : The health of the native needs relaxation. Absolute peace, harmony and happiness will keep him cheerful. Just as a king will expect his subjects to be submissive, and expect always favours from them, so also the Leonians will try to be the leader in the house and expect all those at home to be co-operative, obedient and grateful.
 They want the members of the family to have a broad outlook, and to be magnanimous and noble.
Leonians choose their good friends. They entertain them often. They never hesitate to spend money to maintain prestige and honour. Even when the sandalwood is pulverised and thrown into fire, it does not lose its fragrance. So also, these people will never think of economy, even when they are driven to a state of poverty. They will lead the same aristocratic life and their home will be an impressive one.
They will spend much on dress, screen cloth, curtains, furniture etc. They will keep the home tidy with all the attractive trimmings, decoration, etc.
If the male is born in one sign, but the wife is born in Leo, then it is a problem for him to please her by supplying her dress, jewels, etc. If he does not satisfy her, the readers can guess his fate. His home will be his Hell in this life. But if he is able to meet her demands, then his home is his Heaven.
Romance, Marriage and Married Life : The person born in Leo is romantic. He loves deeply and he will be carried away by love. He cheers up the partner most skillfully like an actor in a comedy scene.
He is an ideal lover, as he will be fiery and passionate. 
 But he will never like any demonstration of love in public, as he considers it below his dignity.
He will have abundant charm and be attractive to the opposite sex. It is but natural that the partner is jealous as the Leonian will be always in the midst of a crowd of ladies. Therefore, the partner should have proper understanding. She should share his pleasure when he gives plenty of parties to others and has exciting times with them. Unless he has Saturn Mars and Venus in the ascendant, 5 or 7 0111, she need not mistake the Leonian husband. If one understands him and agrees with him, she will be liked, loved and admired by the person born in Leo. He will fit in the domestic routine, admirably. He will never allow anybody to disrespect his wife or any member of his family. He is very proud of his family. He will not tolerate any ill-repute. He is always conscious of his social standing and is chivalrous..
As Leo is a fiery sign, partners born in the same or the other two fiery signs, Aries or Sagittarius or in anyone of the three airy signs, Gemini, Libra or Aquarius, will suit well.
If one links his fortune with another born in Leo itself, it is advisable that both understand each other, so that there can be no trouble in their married life. 
 Aries and Sagittarius born will contribute for his happiness and harmony. In the airy signs, Aquarius, 
 Libra and Gemini, persons born in Aquarius will be devoted tO Leo borns. Bride born in Libra will ever try for company, avoid troubles and purchase peace at
any price. One born in Gemini will be very tactful and will never do anything which the husband may hate. 
 The Geminian will be an inseparable partner and she will be sincere and affectionate.
The Leo lady is ambitious and Ideal. She will manage her home admirably. At the same time, she is a successful social worker. She can make favourable impression on all. Her devotion both to her home and to the general public, is supreme. She will be offered prominent position. She is a self-sacrificing lady with everlasting love. She cannot expect any good return from those to whom she lends her assistance at the risk of her own interests. A Leo bride marrying an Aries husband is lucky, as she has a commanding person so that she will know her limits, and will not overstep in exercising her authority or in spending lavishly. She needs one to keep her under control, so that she can appreciate her husband's good nature, affection, kindnes and real love to lead a pleasant prosperous and peaceful life. For, she will have pretty fixed ideas, and she will feel that her word is law, and will expect others to do only those which she desires and considers right.

Children : People born in Leo, love their children most. They are very proud of them. Generally their children will be restless and may even be nervous. They may start striking out for independence, even when they are very young. They dislike restriction. Therefore, the Leo-born parents should let their children feel that they rely on them ; otherwise, they will lose their confidence.
Children born in Leo will try to lead and boss over the other children. They will be the captain of the team, while playing any game. They will prove to be able leaders, as they will have great vitality, ambition and persistence. They are not mere figure heads but fine organisers inspiring others. They will not be arrogant ; nor will they be carried away by their own opinion. They will be popular because they do not desire to have honour for themselves by appropriating what others have done. They will be good-natured, obliging and affectionate. They have Courage and confidence to crown them with success.
Handwriting : As the lord of Leo is Sun who is round, full curves and regular circle mark the hand writing of the people born in Leo. They will consume much space and also give some flourishes to the words. They will write in straight and regular lines, as the pathway of the Sun is regular. Their letters will be upright and vertical.
Lucky days : Sundays are good for taking medicine, tonic, etc, to recoup health, to undertake any enterprise ; to meet the High Officials ; to purchase those articles governed by Sun.
Avoid Mondays : Waste of money ; loss of prestige; secret inimical activities ; irritation. Don't do anything afresh on Mondays.
Boldly do on Tuesdays : Grand-success even in competitive examination. Even if you are weak, you can come out victorious on Tuesdays. Good to purchase property, car, etc. and to go on a long journey.
Try for luck on Wednesdays : Approach bankers for over-draft ; enter into contract ; take up agencies ; sign your documents ; register on 
 Wednesdays ; start loving a bride or a boy on a 
 Wednesday and you will be lucky. Lend money on 
 Thursdays ; the borrower will have luck shortly, so that he can return it in time. Purchase costly ones to wife. 
 Present them on Thursday itself. Purchase land and give to children or purchase car for them on Thursdays.
Fridays are auspicious for short journey, transfer and promotion.
Avoid Saturdays :A day of deception and fraud.
Lucky Colour : Orange, Red, Green. Avoid Blue and White.
Lucky Stone : Ruby, Emerald.
Lucky number : 1, 4, 5, 9, 6, Avoid 2, 7 and 8;
 Mixed results -
Places governed by Leo : High hills ; places inhabited by wild animals ; forests ; deserts ; gravelly ways, royal places, castles, mansions, Government buildings, social club houses, cinema and drama theaters, playgrounds for children, gambling den ; race course, dance hall ; ball-rooms,. those places of amusements, sports, betting, etc., Stock Exchange, industry, gold mines, mint, in the house fire-place, chimney, furnace, oven, stoves, kitchen, open terrace, etc.
Countries, Cities and Towns indicated by Leo : France, Italy, Sicily, Bohemia, the Alps, 
 Chaldea, 177
the cost of Sidon and Tyre, Copodistria, Apulia, 
 Lancashire, California, the North of Rumania, Rome, 
 Bristol, Bath, Prague, Taunton, Damascus, Ravenna, 
 Dalton, Portsmouth, Philadelphia (Chicago).
East of Narmada, Orissa, Bengal, Ganjam 
 District, Kamarup in Assam, Puhinda Hill, Eastern half of Deccan, Eastern bank of Jumna, the Bindha Hill, 
 Golangul, Burdwan, Sree mountain, the Mikal hill, South 
 Bihar, Kirata Vitaka, Champa. Udumbara, Chedi, river 
 Ikshmatee, Vanga, Kalinga, etc.
Animate and Inanimate objects : Asafoetida, omum, pine, chillies nutmeg, almond, pepper, saffron, lavender, aromatic herbs, thorny trees, golden articles, emblems, breast pins, rings, amber coloured or golden yellow stones, gold coins, brass, medicines.

Virgo - Kanni
Virgo is the 6th sign of the Zodiac.
This sign is also 30 in Longitude, and it extends from the 150th degree.ftom Verval Equinox (Aries- 
 Mesha 0 degree) to the 180th degree.
Uthirapalguni second, third and the fourth pada 
 Hastham and Chithrai first and second padas are contained in this sign, Virgo (Kanni).
Virgo is the sixth sign of the Zodiac:whereas it is the second sign of the Zodiac ruled by Mercury ; also the second earthy sign. Just like the first sign of 
 Mercury, Gemini is a common sign so also this sign, 
 Virgo, is another common sign. It is a negative, feminine, barren, cold, dry, nocturnal and northern sign, and it is of long ascension.
Mercury is not only the ruler of this sign, but he gets exalted here. Venus, though a good friend of 
 Mercury, gets debilitated in Virgo. Whenever Sun, 
 Moon, Mars, and Jupiter occupy this sign, they are said to be in enemy's camp. Saturn alone is in friend's quarters when it is in Virgo.
Mercury's exaltation in this sign and Venus' debilitation here confirm that Mercurians prefer wisdom to wealth. Goddess Lakshmi and Goddess 
 Saraswathi do not live together in one place. Both cannot co-exist. Spiritual wealth and knowledge which 
 Saraswathi bestows on us is inexhaustible and no dacoit can rob it The possessor never becomes a bankrupt. It is ever full and, if at all, it improves. This wisdom leads one to immorality, whereas material wealth may lead to immorality.
Virgo is traditionaly symbolised as Virgin-Mary. 
 In the ancient Zodiac, it was symbolised as a Virgin, lying prostrate, in one of her hands she holds Spica- seed-wheat and in the other a stem of a tree. The capital of France still retains its name of Paris (Paras- 
 Isis under the protection of Isis-Virgo. Its great 
 Cathedral bears the name Notre Dame (Our Lady).
Leo French says "Light dawns on chaos, whenever a son of Mercury is born. He should be cherished and forfended from any materialising or coarsening influence so far as possible, during childhood. The Virgo child shares this sensitiveness, though the expression thereof is some what different, the earthly element of Virgo giving the native reserve and diffidence, whereas the aerial essence of Gemini
in its true, pristine birth nature is c free from the curse of matter, self-consiousness. Gemini is timid and elusive, evasive in decadence. Virgo is shy and self- conscious.
Even though Mercury may occupy its own sign, yet it is 80 different in Virgo from the other sign, 
 Gemini, and so different it its effect on everything with which it comes in contact, that the casual astrological observer would not recognise the planet as the same 
 Budha-Mercury.

Physical Features : The native will be tall with a slender body. He or she will have dark hair and eyes.
 The eyebrows will be curved with much of hair growth. 
 The voice will be thin and even shrill. Ever they will walk quickly and never they have pot belly. Due to their activity, they often appear younger than their actual age. The nose will be straight, indicating that they are very clever, not necessarily cunning. The forehead near the eyebrows will be pronounced. The expression of their eyes will be honest and frank. Among the 
 Westerners, most of the Virgo-borns will have beautiful blue eyes. (Venus is the ruler of the second sign).

Characteristics : Virgo is ruled by inconstant
 Mercury. So change is always desired : Most of you are for ever changing, your residence, or your jobs. Of all the people born in the 12 signs of the Zodiac, you, the Virgoan are very conscientious and very capable of handling even unfavourable conditions. You will mark time and get prepared to handle it wisely. 
 You have the commercial instinct will-ingrained. You will be very brisk and very quick in your work, just like the fast
4on
moving Planet Mercury. You will be expecting others to be brief in their statements and representation. You will expect others to be businesslike. But when once you begin to talk or explain, you pay your attention upon the details of things. You add such wealth of detail which will make others feel boring and vexed. You will rarely come to the point quickly. If you are a drawing master, you will include it in all the conceivable details.
You are thorough and methodical. Your first thought and action will be most sensible and rational. 
 You are practical and discriminative. You may be careful but you are severely critical. Self-pity is one of your vices. You will be at your best if you are an 
 Inspector or Auditor or Income-tax officer or examiner as you are very good and quick at finding fault with others. If you are having Mercury weak in your horoscope, you are prone to dissatisfaction and if the task is a difficult one, you will give it up in despair. 
 But if your Mercury is strong, you will go ahead, and try to do perfectly whatever you undertake. You will be a genius. You will analyse, dissect and go deep into the matter.
Being an earthy sign, you will have the desire to save money. You will be prudent and always will keep a small sum of money that none is aware of. If you travel, you will keep a part of your cash in one pocket, something in the other, and safely some more amount, with the idea of not spending it, in your suit case.
You will be so over-careful that you will not mind to reopen the cover written by you, just before posting
it. You will verify once, twice and thrice before you finish a work. Thus, you will avoid mistakes.
If you have to consult a doctor. you will sit down for hours, write a big history-sheet about your constitution to the last detail try to recollect your old complaints, and present a big file to the doctor, even though actually Your complaint is very simple. 
 You are remarkable for keeping everything in its place properly and orderly. You will maintain accounts and the day-book with all details. You will keep personal files and all documents in perfect condition. 
 Unfortunately your subordinates or servants at home will not be born in Virgo and will not be equally brisk and brilliant. So to the extent to which you expect them, they can never keep up and satisfy you. Virgo, being a feminine and earthy sign, you will take delight in horti-culture, agriculture, gardening etc. It is said that 
 Virgo, Gares (Demeter) is the goddess of agriculture and of legislation and social order. You are governed much by intellect as Mercury gets exalted here. You will not be sympathetic, as Venus gets debilitated in this sign. 
 Saturn, aspecting Virgo, will make you lazy, and fond of taking things easy. But you derive pleasure in driving others and be very masterful with subordinates. 
 Being a common sign, there will be changes in your environments, and you will form associations and friendship.

Mercury shows that you will be fond of studying science, and particularly about medicine, food, diet, hygiene, etc., being the sixth sign of the Zodiac.
Mercury as lord of the 6th sign. called the Hospital of 
 Zodiac indicates that if ever you fall ill, you lack the will-power and will often brood over the disease, imagine too much, never cheer yourself up, to get you out of the clutches of your illness. Thus, you will be ruining your health. Further, you will always look for sympathy. But at the time, when you are healthy, if anybody falls ill, you will prove to be a very good nurse.
Neptune in Virgo gives a scheming mind. One may be a deceptive individual and be interested in illicit pleasure. Neptune in the exact, cusp produces thieves, cunning and most diplomatic scoundrels. 
 Uranus in Virgo Ascendant, makes one clever, learned and versatile. You may be employed as a teacher to a writer, or a Superintendent, or an excise officer.
Uranus always offers aresearch mind. Virgo gives analytical nature. Hence, many research scholars are born in Virgo having good aspect with Uranus. 
 Great musicians, statisticians, journalists, and scientists are also born under such favourable positions.

Characteristics to be corrected : The native's nature is to be very chatty. He will be very analytical, and in conversation, will give lengthy description, including all meticullous details which will be boring to others. He will be restless till he passes his remarks and pass criticism on others' faults and idiosyncrasies.
 Even the members of his family will not relish, or appreciate his comments and criticism. He will have to avoid too much analysis over even minor things. He should not have nervousness and self-doubt. Even
though he may be intelligent and have quick perception, he will really need steadiness in going after what he wants. He should avoid as much as possible, his changeability, when alone he can achieve the cherished goal. He should not proceed to another work, unless the earlier one is completed. He should not ask for everyone's advice about a situation, and get so confused and uncertain that finally nothing is accomplished. He is himself a good judge, and an intelligent person. Why he should seek other's advice, is not known. Especially, when he consults a doctor or an astrologer, he should pin up his faith on one, and take his advice. If he consults many he will be confused. He should stick always to a single person's advice which will be the best. So, he should make the selection of the person whom he intends to consult. 
 He should develop true consistency of purpose. He should learn to forget other's mistakes and forgive them for their faults. He should not have long sustained resentment.
Health : You are normally a temperate person; you live sensibly. So you enjoy robust health with long life and healthy old age. When you are young, you will be very active, and will appear always much younger due to your activity. Also, you are always very particular about your diet. Hence, you do not fall ill often. But, planets afflicting your Ascendant will cause digestive and intestinal troubles. Generally, people, having malefics in Virgo, suffer from dysentery, typhoid, and sprue during their periods. Malefics in Virgo suggest that you need plenty of rest and calm surroundings.
 You must have lot of exercise, especially when your
Ascendant is afflicted. Your weak points physically are your nervous system and your stomach. Both are sensitive. Hence, if you include much of Vitamin B in your diet, you can avoid these troubles, have regular meals. Also try to have balanced diet. Illness may be very minor. But, be your imagination, you exaggerate it and make yourself un- happy. As Virgo-borns have 
 Saturn as lord of 6 and Mars as lord of 8, it is observed that they will have minor injuries very often, and it is likely that they meet with accidents. Hence, do not be rash,
As Virgo indicates abdomen and bowels, and as it is ruled by Mercury which has influence over the nervous system, disorders of the bowels react on the mental condition. Further, disturbed mental status, business as well as domestic worries reflect adversely on the bowels. Hypochondria is indicated by this sign. 
 The functions of Virgo are absorption, assimilation, selection and utilisation. Its action is chylifactive. 
 Vegetarian diet, well-proportioned, is preferred. Avoid worries, discontentment, irritability, and short temper. 
 Normally, you will have few temptations for excess. High living, and deep drinking are also to be avoided. Be on guard against gall-stones. Avoid alcohol. But you will always remember "An apple a day, will keep the doctor away".

Finance : As you possess a sound commercial instinct, you are normally careful about your money. You have the greatdesire to become rich and hence you are very conscious about the value of money. You do not usually come by fortune and much of Wealth. You
will work hard, and the remuneration will not be satisfactory, as lord of 6 is Saturn. Investment$ also will not prove to be good, as the returns will be poor. 
 You may have many ups and downs. It is only through your own talent and hard work, that you will be able to come to the top.

Profession : People born in Virgo should make a correct choice of their financier or partner in business. He should select one with much of enthusiasm and also courage. He will use short-cut methods : you will worry about minor details, and get discouraged now and then. But the partner should be one who always cheers you up and makes the best use of your intelligence. Generally you become a slave to your work ; you are also a hard taskmaster. You will prefer to be left alone to carry out your work in a quiet place peacefully.
Sun, forming good aspect with lord of 2 or 6 or 10 in Virgo indicates that you may be a successful medical officer. You may work in the Medical or Public 
 Health department. Also you can get into Government service in Engineering, Auditing, Teaching, etc. Mars also forming good aspect, denotes that one can have his or her own nursing home or deal in scientific instruments, appliances, etc.
Moon, forming good aspect with lord of 2 or 6 or 10 in Virgo, shows that one may be employed in the 
 Engineering or Accounts department in Shipping. Port 
 Trust or Navy, or in those concerns dealing in liquids, like petrol, mercury etc. Also it is shown that one may be serving in the Textile department, inks, inkstands, pens may be manufactured.
Mars, forming good aspects with lord of 2 or 6 or 10 suggests that you may interest yourself in the Press printing, editing, publishing, writing, or serve as a clerk in any industry or in the Defense department ; be a surgeon or independent auditor or one working in the 
 Military accounts, or be a mechanical engineer or a military engineer. It is also likely that you may serve in the expansion of plants for steel, fertiliser, agricultural implements, etc. If Mars is also afflicted, one will amass wealth by black-market or by committing theft or robbery.
A warning to such people is necessary. A few of your servants may have venomous tongue, and by doing propaganda of false libels. Somehow, they will manage to have confidential information from their friends in their unguarded moments, and be going on exploiting the friends, who have to give money, simply to please such undesirable persons. 
 Otherwise, you will get into trouble. Therefore, it is advisable to scrutinise the horoscope of at least the Private Secretary, so that you can avoid such troubles later, when Mars and Mercury conjointly operate. They will have the courage even to come to the court, and give witness against you. It is a pleasure for such persons to turn hostile and spoil you and similar higher officials, if Mars forms disharmonious aspect with Mercury.
Mercury forming good aspect, Shows that you will be a broker, book-keeper, accountant, teacher lawyer, or pharmacist. You may be the author of many books. 
 You may become a good journalist. You may be an interpreter. Registrar or letter carrier. You will have the
desire to study all problems in minute details, and solve them in your own way, as you are good on devices and systems. As a lawyer, you will be successful in cross-examination.
Jupiter, forming good aspect with the lords of 2, 6 or 10 in Virgo, indicates that you may have literary, scientific, or any other intellectual pursuit. You may be a publisher, editor, or a journalist. Religion, law, insurance, investment, or speculation, may also be your profession. You may work in Religious 
 Endowment Board or temple or church, in law courts, banks, etc., It is likely that you will work in any embassy, or go out as an ambassador.
Venus, forming good aspect, shows that you will be a good musician, actor, painter, or artist. You may be engaged in making toilet accessories, manufacturing women clothing, etc. 
 You may deal in all articles needed for personal adornment. Confectioners, caterers, bakers, restaurant keepers and perfumery dealers are also born in Virgo, having favourable aspect from Venus, or when it occupied Virgo at the time of birth, as 
 Venus is lord of 2.

Saturn (lord of 6), forming beneficial aspect with
 Venus, lord of 2, with Mercury, lord of 10, in Virgo, or when Saturn was in Virgo at the time of birth one will have competence in mathematics, statistics, accounts, physics, dynamics etc. You will serve in mines, or engineering department. You may engage in exporting mine ore. You may hold responsible posts and positions of trust. As you will be industrious and methodical, you will thrive in business. You are likely
to serve in the Finger Print Office, If Mars also aspects, as Mars indicates Police and Crime.
Uranus indicates that one may serve in the railway or electricity or election, or nutrition research departments. Jupiter, forming strong beneficial aspects, will offer the native Finance Minister's post, and notRevenue Minister's post, as the latter is to collect money to the Government, whereas the former is to spend away, and also to borrow, whenever needed. Virgo being the sixth sign of the Zodiac, and as the 6th house shows debts and dispute he will be the minister for election, or be serving in the 
 Election department. A few may work in the 
 Aviation department or Census office.
Neptune, forming good aspect with lord of 2, 6, or 10 in the Ascendant Virgo, indicates that you may serve in big industries, tea estates; export and import departments or in shipping.

Domestic Environments : Wander-lust is your nature. Change of your residence, more to have a change in the scenery and in the neighbourhood, will be more frequent just like the Cancer- borns.
You want to keep everything in your home in order. 
 You expect your people to work methodically, and put up a show when guests are invited. You will insist on your people to keep everything neat saying, "A place for everything and everything in its place". You prefer to entertain others in your home, but you do not return their visits. As Jupiter is the lord of the fourth house, you will always be lucky in procuring houses to live in.
Even, when you invest on buildings, you will be able to purchase them in a good locality. The value of the property will shoot up during the period of Jupiter. But 
 Saturn, being the lord of the 5th and 6th houses, and 
 Mars the lord of the 8th house they show that there may be losses in investments during the joint periods of Saturn and Mars. It is advisable for Virgoans to dispose their holdings during their Jupiter periods, when the price will be higher, whether it is investment shares or lands. Otherwise, a necessity win arise during the following Saturn's period, and it will be disposed of at a loss, and you will be depressed.
Jupiter is not only lord of 4th but also the lord of the 7th house. Hence, your partner in life will be God- fearing, religious, law abiding and true, Therefore you will have a peaceful and pleasant domestic life.

Friends and benefactors : You have your own peculiarities. You prefer only intelligent people who have a good future. You will have a great mind to offer your assistance only to them. The defect in you is that you expect them to say "Thanks", before you actually render your help, and also gain a "Thanks', after you have done it. You expect them to mention in many words that they want and appreciate your friendship.
 Normally, you do not mix with all people. You make your choice. You feel delicate to approach strangers for any help you need. You want friends and you cannot do anything for them with pleasure, unless they recognise, approve and appreciate. You need friends more for this purpose. Just as you have the desire to change residence, etc., so also you will form friendship with new persons. 1 1 th house indicates benefactors. 11 th house is ruled by Moon which is also inconstant. People born on Mondays, Rohini, Hastham and Sravanam star days or in Cancer, will be good friends, indeed.

Romance and marriage : You have your own ideals. To find one suiting to your taste is difficult.
 Therefore, there will be long delay in choosing one to measure up to your ideal. as everything must be perfect, as far as you are concerned. It is likely that, in the first few cases, you will be disappointed. Whenever you desire to make a selection, you attach more value to intelligence than to the pleasure in romance. Further, you are often shy, and do not demonstrate your affection. You should not be so touchy. For happy life with wife to some extent, you should give expression to your affection. You should remember that love demands good understanding, and it cannot stand any criticism. Your temperament is to find fault with others. 
 That you must give up. Just as you expect others to appreciate your assistance or intelligence so also, whether the person, whom you love, is equally intelligent or not, you have to simply admire her beauty (even though she is not very fair) and her company and give expression to it. Virgoans are rarely passionate. By conversation, at least, they should keep the partner cheerful, and also get such books for her to read.
A male born in Virgo will lead the married life, more on partnership basis, al though it is a business or as a part of the social scheme. That is why many people, born in Virgo postpone their time of marriage,
and prefer to be a bachelor for a long time. Your desire is more to be studious, and to be doing research work in a peaceful atmosphere. But, when once you get married, you make all provision for your wife, and the other members of your family. It is likely that you may be often complaining about your health which you should avoid. As Mercury rules this sign, you have a nervous active manner. You will consider the nervous tensions as actual symptoms of some illness, and you not only worry within yourself, but cause more worry to your partner and others. 
 Luckily, the partner's ruling planet wit be Venus, lord of 2, or Jupiter, lord of the 7th house, or Moon, lord of the 11th house. As all the three are benefics by nature, and give fertile imagination to the partner, she will be able to understand you properly, and conduct herself wisely, giving always encouragement to you, whenever you need it. It is the good nature of your wife, i.e., adjustability, accommodation and good understanding that will be responsible for your happy life with such a dutiful wife.
Virgo-borns will be peevish and occasionally mean ; they are so thrifty that their husbands will become economical within a few years after marriage. 
 Her idea of marriage is legal partnership, and that she should live in a business-like way. She will run the home in a very regulated routine manner, without herself wasting anything nor allowing others to waste, or be extravagant. She will attend to her duties quickly and most satisfactorily, But, she will not be able to please her husband in spiritual life, or in keeping pleasant company. She will cling to the idea that sex
is mean, base and one day or other troublesome. A clever partner has to change her frame of mind, and should not mistake her.

Children : People born in Virgo will have limited number of children, as the 5th house is ruled by Saturn.
 Also, they may have to spend much upon them for their studies, etc, necessitating the Virgoans to borrow, as lord of 5 is also lord of 6. It is also indicated that the 
 Virgo people may borrow, and invest on landed properties which will be later enjoyed by their children. 
 Even. though you may not show your affection to them, yet you will never fail in your duty to train them, give proper education and make them fit enough to hold any post admirably in their official career. Among your children, the eldest will be plodding, persevering, patiently working and prospering, whereas the second and the third children will be maintaining good health and enjoying fortune, with less of efforts.
Handwriting : Virgoans are governed by strong 
 Mercury, So you may write in between two lines, i.e., above the line. You will develop the upper part of the letters. The lines written by you will be short, sharp, and also including upwards. You always use sharp pointed nibs, and hence, your writing will be thin. 
 You do not waste ink by putting loops, etc. You avoid underlining your signature, more to save time. If at all you underline, Mercury, lord of the sign shows that you will do it twice.
Lucky day : Your ruling planet is Mercury. He owns both the Ascendant and also the most powerful. effective, and successful house, the 10th i.e, the
meridian. Therefore, Wednesday, governed by 
 Mercury will be the most lucky day for you. Even though Venus gets debilitated in this sign, yet as she rules the second and the ninth houses, Bagya 
 Sthana, Fridays will bring fortune. Mars, ruling the third and the eighth houses, indicates that Tuesdays are inauspicious, especially for speculation, betting, short travels, or correspondence, and for signing any important document. Saturdays are not beneficial, as it threatens with delay, denial, and disapointment. Sundays will end in a loss. Mondays are good to meet friends, make new friendship, bet ; speculate and ever gain. Thursdays are favourable to invest, to buy cars, etc. also to commence romance, or start family and life with wife in new quarters. It is also very good to form partnership in business and expand your enterprise.
Lucky colour : Green, white and yellow.
Avoid red and blue. You will find that when you put on red and blue only, your health fails, and that you meet with minor injuries and face difficulties. 
 The moment you give them up, there will be no more evil. Putting on white ones, shows fortune, green ones and emerald, promotion in official life, and also prosperity in business. Yellow ones are good for happy domestic environments. 
 Lucky numbers : 5, 14, 23, 32, 41, etc.
2, 11,20, 38, 47, etc. 7, 16,25, 34, 43, etc. 6, 15,24, 33, 42, etc. 3, 12,21, 30, 48, etc.
Lucky stone : Emerald, pearl, diamond and yellow sapphire. Virgoans are generally fortunate in those years, when Jupiter gets exalted in Cancer. It is certain that Jupiter, transiting in the constellation. 
 Aslesha, will offer the most beneficial results to you, as Aslesha is ruled by Mercury, the lord of 1 and 10 e and it is in the 11th house which promises, pleasure, profit, permanent tie of friendship, and fulfillment of your cherished desires.
Object indicated by Virgo : Gardens, both wet and dry lands corn fields, granaries grain elevators, restaurants, pantries, places where fruits and vegetables are kept, the store room, also book- shelves, first aid box, medical box, libraries, closets, dairies, etc.
Countries : Turkey, Croatia, Mesopotamial, 
 Babylon, Assyria, the locality between Tibet and the 
 Eurphrates, Greece, Thessaly, Corinth, Monz, 
 Switzerland, Lower Silesia, Brazil, Virginia and West 
 Indies.
Towns : Jerusalem, Navarre, Paris, Brazil, 
 Padua, Lyons, Tolluous, Reading, Baghdad, 
 Cheltenham, Norwich, Todmorden, Boston, Brindisi, 
 Corinth and Los Angeles.

Libra - Thulam
 Libra is the 7th sign of the Zodiac.
This sign is also 30 in longitude and it extends from the 180th degree from Vernal Equinox. Aries- - 
 Mesha 0' to 210'. The commencement of Libra, i.e.,
180th degree is termed Autumnal Equinox. It is a crossing place or intersection of ecliptic and celestial 
 Equator. The sun passes over from North jo South declination and at the time when Sun enters 0 of Libra, the night and the day are equal throughout the world. 
 Hindus celebrate this and Thula Masam. The old 
 Mexicans and Egyptians also celebrate this and have feasts on this day.
Chitra, second half (third and fourth padas), 
 Swathi, and Visaka one, two and three padas are contained in this sign, Thulam.
Libra is the 7th sign of the Zodiac whereas it is the 2nd sign of the Zodiac governed by Venus ; also the 2nd airy sign. It is said to be the day house or Moola 
 Trikona sign of Venus. The ist sign of Venus, Taurus- 
 Rishaba, is an earthy sign but Libra is an airy sign. 
 Taurus-Rishaba is a fixed sign whereas Libra is a movable (chars) sign. Libra is a positive one and not negative likeTaurus. Alan Leo calls Libra the equalising sign of the Zodiac. It is signified as the sign of the balance.
Venus is the ruler of this sign. Saturn gets exalted in Libra and Sun gets debilitated. Moon, Mars and 
 Jupiter, when even they occupy this sign are said to be in the enemy's camp.
Libra is symbolised by a man stationed in a public market, holding a balance in his hand and dealing in his commodities, it is called the sign of Vyapari, 
 Vaisyas-Businessmen. It is the human biped sign of long ascension.
Physical features : The person born with Libra as ascendant, grows tall with well-proportioned body. 
 His limbs will be slender but-strong. His appearance will be graceful with a sweet smile, and his countenance attractive. The eyebrows add to his beauty. In the adult age, occipital region gets bald. The nose will be a little bent like the parrot.

Characteristics : As Libra is symbolised with
 Balance the Librans will be level-headed; they can maintain mental equilibrium, weigh the merits and, demerits and pass a dispassionate opinion. They are the best judges. While they debate, they excel other in comparing and contrasting. They are constructive critics.
Venus, the ruler of this sign makes the native courteous, modest and gentle. He is always for a happy and harmonious life. He will not rub on the wrong side. He will purchase peace at any cost. He will be upright and sympathetic. Even when he loses his temper, he will soon be quietened. He tries lead a pleasant life enjoying all the fruits of life. He is fond of dress, perfumeries, art and music. Venus shows that 
 Librans will be having hobbies and being a movable sign, they will be changing from one to another. 
 Photography, gardening, drawing, painting, embroidery etc, may be their hobbies.
As Libra is the sign opposite to Aries, the Librans will forego their personal comforts but work hard for the benefit of others. Politicians born in Libra will be popular throughout life whereas Aries-horns will be in power during beneficial periods and be nowhere
during adverse days. One can study correctly any sign, if he first learns the opposite sign. 
 Libra is an airy sign. So it confers fertile imagination, correct intuition, brilliant intellect, admirable refinement, supreme indemnity, pleasant — nature etc. He will be a proper adviser to plan anything with correct forethought. As Saturn gets exalted here, one can concentrate, meditate, and reach a higher plane in spiritual life also. Sri Narasimha Bharathi, Sri 
 Ramana Maharishi the sages and the successful politicians who universally commanded all the people uniformly through out life, like Mahatma M. K. Gandhi, were born in Libra.
Further, these people do not believe in hot discussions ; but they will try to bring about compromise in all controversial matters. This is one of the main reasons why they come to the front, become popular and prosperous. Another good quality in them is that they have an unassuming nature and humanitarian instincts. Even when they commit any mistake, it is such that will be easily forgiven. They generally lean more to the spiritual side than to the pure physical one.
As Libra is a masculine sign and the seventh of the Zodiac (seventh house indicates marriage partner), the Librans have such strong conjugal affection that they do not consider anything else more important than this pleasure. This is the difference between Leo- borns and Librans. Librans are very affectionate and gentle. They are easy-going, remarkably shrewd, and never hurt others, feelings. They will not bully and
bluster. They are persuasive. Being a masculine sign, one cannot impose upon Librans who will defeat the opponent by adopting a peaceful and strategic plan. 
 They are accomplished diplomats.
The Librans enjoy life immensely in the company of the opposite sex. Mars, as lord of 2, offers "no fears". Hence they argue with clarity and forethought. 
 They have the capacity to handle any situation tactfully. 
 Neat touch and fine finish are the traits of Librans. They have warmth and charming manners so that they happen to be the peace-makers.
Venus, the lord of the sign indicates that Librans will take interest in their dress, furniture, conveyance and other comforts. The number one concern for them is to keep the partner always in good cheer. The partner will attach importance to the spirit of love among the two, whereas Librans care more for the surrounding conditions.
Venusians generally, like music, especially, romantic music, if Venus or Libra receives aspects from Mars, Saturn, aspecting or occupying Libra,. shows interest in tragic ones. Jupiter indicates prayers. 
 Moon shows melody and they will keep the audience spell-bound.

Characteristics to be corrected : Generally.
 Libra-borns gain materially either by fortune or through the goodwill and generosity of any affectionate and influential associate. So one has to keep his emotions in check. He should not allow things to get out of hand. 
 He should not appoint the opposite sex as his private
secretary. Much of his time will be wasted. Librans will mix business and pleasure. This need not be elaborated.
Further, they should try to take quick decisions as many ideas will flash in the mind and will spring up one after another quickly.
They should avoid copying mannerisms from others as also gaudiness.
A Librans are unassuming and amiable, others may try to fool them ; they should deal with such associate carefully. Librans are always ready to forgive and forget. They may forgive but it is not wise to forget.
Librans will feel that every new occasion ' demands a new dress, and so they will spend much on costumes. They do not realise that God has given them charm and that adornment is not required in their case.

Health': Normally, their physical structure is good. But they do not have normal immunity and resistance against infectious diseases. So they are susceptable for such ones. They have to take prophylactic measures.
Kidneys, loins and spines are indicated by Libra. 
 Therefore one can expect defect in the kidneys, pain in the spines, etc. In the case of ladies, uterus may be affected. Whenever the indicating disease occupies 
 Libra, one may suffer from appendichis, lumbago polyuria etc.
Finance and Fortune : Librans are the best suited for business with a partner. Libran may be the adviser and his partner may look to him, consult and take a decision as Libran can suggest just the correct thing at the proper moment. For, Librans excel other people in matters of reasoning, logic, foresight and judgment.
Librans are also suited for law. They are admirable critics. 10th house ruled by Moon suggests that their occupation may include liquids. So blending both, it may be said that Librans may be druggists, chemists, painters, engineers in hydro-electric system, transport, navy or those dealing in food or milk or juicy fruits.
Libra, being an airy sign ruled by Venus, anyone born in this sign or having Libra as one of the houses 2, 6, 10 counted from one's ascendant. may be a story writer, playback, musician, architect, nursery owner or one in the 'airways' service.
As Librans pow ers of persuasion are irresistible, they happen to be good salesmen, liasion officers, receptionists. As salesmen, they will sell more than what the buyer wants, because of their charm, pleasing manners, smile and sweet words.
Expenses : Libran's idea of what is needed is different from that of other people. That is why they are sometime extravagant. They spend on luxuries, curios, etc. They are seldom economical. Therefore much money may pass through their hands. They will donate for good causes and will be generous and liberal.

Domestic environment : Their family life will be happy because Librans try to maintain peace. Their houses will be well furnished and all luxuries will be made available. Decorations, designs, paintings, will be of high standard. Costly ornaments will be in their possession. They always prefer to lead such pleasant lives and enjoy all fruits of life. They love their home, family and their property. Generally, the parents of natives born in Libra will rush home from their office, mostly to spend their time at home with their little group. They will not normally give interviews to their subordinates or customers at their residence. They will finish everything in their office.
Friends and benefactors : The Librans are ever-lasting good friends to all those who come in contact with them. For they are ‘honest, just, kind, * courteous and generous ; they easily make friendship with others. Without friends, they cannot pass on their time. Sun, as lord of 11, shows that they will have much to do with Government servants, officials, etc. They will lead mostly a public life with both social and financial success. As they do not hurt others, even when - their friends misbehave, they quickly forgive. So naturally, they gain ultimately. Socially they are always in great demand. Well-aspected Sun gives them benefit through those born on Sundays or in Leo 
 Ascendant, or Karthikai, Uthra Palguni or Uthrashadha . star days. They will waste money on those born on 
 Punarvasu, Visakha, Poorva. pathrapada stars and 
 Aslesha, Jyeshta and Revathi stars. For people born in these six stars cannot be helpful.
Romance and marriage : Librans are the most lovable people for sex-life. For, they are experts in all love affairs. By this sincere love, they capture their partners. Besides, their dress, fashion, pleasant perfumery, and sweet smile are very enticing. Librans' passion grows suddenly and dies out quickly being a movable sign. But, at the time the Libran enjoys, he enjoys immensely in the company of the opposite sex. 
 Being pleasant conversationalists, they put their argument. with clear vision as they find pleasure in good discussions. Girls born in Libra are ready to let the male do all the disagreeable ones. They like to do such acts and will never fail to thank with a smile.
Librans marry early in their life. They preserve the tradition. They are happy both at home and also in social life. Their standard of living being high, sometimes they cannot have partner who can satisfy them.
Libra girls are intelligent, tactful, and wise. They avoid hot discussions and try to maintain peace. Libra ladies lead luxurious lives. They love and adore their partners.
Libra men are cheerful, happy, compassionate and adjusting. They will accommodate to a good extent. They will provide the family with all necessaries, comforts, luxuries and conveniences. They are highly passionate and they reach the greatest heights in expressing their love. If, per chance, the response is not to their expectation, they feel very much disappointed. But generally, they do not seek for divorce but try to adjust.
As houses, 2, 7, and 11 indicate the partner in life and the house 2 and 7 are ruled by Mars and 11 by 
 Sun, the partner in life will be short-tempered and rash. 
 They may listen to the Librans but do just as they desire. They will be mostly of Martian type. Hence 
 Libra-borns have to tone down the partner's fiery nature and by their diplomacy and tact, maintain peace at home.
Those who are born in Gemini and Aquarius will match the Librans very well. Pisces, Capricorn and 
 Cancer will not agree with them. Librans will manage with others.
Children : Since the fifth house is ruled by the planet Saturn, normally the Libra-borns will have limited number of children. As Saturn is a dutiful planet, the children of Libra-borns will help them in their old age. Librans, by their charm and pleasing manners, can see that the children carry out their instructions with pleasure.
If children are born in the exalted sign of Saturn, i.e. Libra-they will be renowned for their diplomacy. 
 They will never quarrel. They will pay heed to others, understand their views and try to adopt them if they suit them. They are never 'Extremes'. They are moderate. They cannot be partial. They are very polite and modest. They know to say alway. 'Yes' and they avoid saying 'No' to anybody.
Lucky day : Sundays and Mondays are the successful days, when you will be fortunate.
Saturdays show ultimate and grand success as it owns both the Kendhra and Kona houses and it becomes a benefic by lordship.
Tuesdays are auspicious for competition, litigation, election and speculation. Sudden and unexpected advantages will occur on those days.
Wednesdays show long journeys, contact with foreigners, feasts, social functions and pleasant expenses. Thursdays are evil.
There will be misunderstanding with cousins, colleagues and others. But this day is auspicious to apply for overdraft facility etc.
(Generally people born in Libra do not have such younger brothers who are as useful, reliable and true to Librans, as Librans are to them. As lord of 3 is also lord of 6, the younger brother and neighbour will be inimical).
Fridays offer mixed results.
Lucky colour : Orange, white and red. Green and yellow should be avoided. Orange colour gives easy gain without any pain. Pearls and orange are favourable for speculative profit. Do not use blue when you speculate. Blue will assist your opponent as 
 Capricorn and Aquarius are the 10th and .11th houses to the opponent indicated by Aries.
Red colour is good for marriage and competition.
Yellow threatens misunderstanding and dispute. 
 Green shows only withdrawal of money and deterioration of bank position. -
Lucky number : 1, 10, 19 28, 37 etc 4, 13, 22, 31, 40 etc. 2,11, 20, 29, 38, 47 etc. 7, 16, 25, 34, 43, etc.
Number 5 is for loss ; 6 also threatens success to opponent : 8 indicates investment and profit to one with whom Librans transact, 3 brings enmity. 9 may lead to litigation. But finally it promises success.
Some are of opinion that Venus being the lord of the ascendant, Friday Number 6 and diamond are lucky. But it is not correct as Venus rules the 8th house also (although in Jataka Chandrika it is said that 
 Venus does not become a malefic by owning the 8th house). Experience has shown that this rule applies only to longevity and not for any other aspect in one's life. So Venus as lord of 8 will throw obstacles: one may have any danger due to the lordship of the 8th house. As lord of the ascendant, it saves. But Venus does not give smooth life.
Objects indicated by Libra : Libra indicates the prices of cotton and textiles, silks and fabrics like rayons, linen, nylon ; and also the prices of wheat, jute, canes and grains. Finished goods and foodstuffs are indicated by Virgo.
Places : Libra denotes sawpits, ground near windmills, outhouses, inner chamber, sides of hills, places having a pure, clear, sharp air, mountain tops, etc..
Towns : Antwerp, Nottingham, Lezds, Frankfart, 
 Lisbon, Vienna, Charles Town, Petrograd,
Copenhagen, Spirles, Playenya Fribourg, Suessa, 
 Johannesburg and Gaeta.
Countries : Northern Provinces of India, Burma,
1: Mo-China, China, Argentina Republic, parts of Tibet, 
 Upper Egypt, Libya, Uzbek, Savoy, Austria, Bactrianna and Livonia.

Scorpio or Vrischika
» Scorpio is the 8th sign of the Zodiac. It is also 30 in longitude. It extends from the 210th degree from 
 Vernal Equinox (Aries Mesha 0) to 240. Sun will be
moving away from the celestial equator towards the south.
The constellation or the nakshathras Visakam 4th quarter. Anuradha and Jyeshta are contained in this sign, Vrischika. The concluding part of this sign Kataka and Meena also) is termed Bhasandhi and Riksha 
 Sandhi.
Scorpio is the 2nd sign of Mars : the first sign governed by Mars is a barren, masculine, positive, cardinal, movable chara), fiery sign : the second is a fruitful, fixed, Sthira, feminine yet violent and a watery sign. It is of long ascension.
Mars is the ruler of this sign. No planet gets exalted in this sign. But Moon becomes weakened and is debilitated. Scorpio is the sign of detriment to Venus.
Modern scholars assign Scorpio as the exalted sign of Uranus. (But considering the qualities of 
 Uranus it appeals to me that it will be appropriate to allot Virgo as the exalted sign to Uranus, just like
Mercury). Sun and Jupiter are said to be in friend's quarters if they occupy Scorpio. Saturn, Mercury and 
 Venus are considered ta be in enemy's camp when they pass in Scorpio.
Scorpio is symbolised by a Scorpion. In snakes, there are venomous and non-venomous ones. But in 
 Scorpions, there is no non-venomous one. All are evil. 
 That is why Vrischika is called "Keeta meaning reptile, representing the Poisonous scorpion. It is a centified sign. Hebrews ascribed scorpio to Dan, a serpent. 
 Originally the banner of the Israel tribes was a 
 Scorpion. Later it is replaced by an Eagle. In Arabia it is called "Al Akrab". It means dispute and war : rupture and fall are attributed to Scorpio.
Scorpio represents two types. The higher 
 Scorpion type people have control over this senses "Jithainthriyas". That is why, Lord Krishna stands on the venomous head of the "Kalinga" snake and keeps it under control. The lower type people will be jealous of others and rude. These are the indefatigable seekels after sensuous pleasure. They have strong will and they are irreconcilable. They know how to control others but they cannot control themselves and their senses.

Physical features : The body will be well proportioned, Hands are generally long. The stature is above average. Broad face, commanding appearance, short and curly hair and muscular body are indicated by Scorpio. They have good personality.
Characteristics : Scorpio is a fixed sign 
 Therefore you are a particularly determined individual
especially when you get yourself a goal, you will not beat about the bush. But straight you will plunge into the business. You cannot keep idle, nor can you afford to waste time till you hit your target. You are at your best only when there are obstacles and hindrances. 
 You will never give up, nor surrender ; but you will fight to the last leaving the ultimate result to God.
Being a watery sign, you have fertile imagination and sharp intelligence. You do not Know your own ability. Actually it is latent in you. But if it is made known to you, if it is aroused and you are set into action, you will prove that you are full of dynamic energy and will complete your job without rest and relaxation. 
 Probably Hanumanji (Anjeneya) would have been born in this sign.
Further, the watery sign shows that you will have intense feeling and emotion which comes from the water element. It gives remarkable intuition and so you can diagnose correctly. As a medical man, you can flourish. You are also a good critic. You are resourceful. 
 In all matters pertaining to finance, as you have proper intuition and prompt action, you will be successful in buying and selling. You will enjoy life to your entire satisfaction from the low type carnal pleasures to the high poetical and mystical adventures.
Mars, the owner of the sign gives you self- assertion, impulsive action, courage, resolution, independence, excitement, forcefulness. etc. You will have likes and dislikes. You are an extremist. You have either practical business ability or you may be drawn to reckless habits. You may have the tendency to over- ride and keep others under control. You are unyielding, self-reliant and assured. You will not mind standing alone and fighting your own battle. you are self-made.
Due to Mars, you lose your temper quickly, you get irritated. It gives you the habit of drinking (probably to have warmth). Mars threatens some ill-repute to you as you may be rash and you may go headlong. Scorpio is a highly sexed sign. You may evince unusual interest in the mysterious of nature as well as in psychic subjects. Scorpio produces excellent research workers on their own original lines. You will not accept any theory simply because it is antiquated. You want rational thinking, convincing argument and _ scientific explanation. You will not follow old customs though you do not disrespect them.
You hate gossip, loose talk, black mailing, etc.. 
 You are brief and your words are well chosen.
You generally put off things to the last moment. 
 Yon prepare at the eleventh hour and come out successful. Scorpio horses start last but finish first.
You do not interfere in others' matters. You take interest only when it concerns you.
You will appear to be frank, plain and blunt. But actually you keep secrets and when you criticise others, you pass sarcastic remarks. You will invariably keep a trumpcard to save yourself. You never under- estimate the inimical forces. Yo are fully aware and hence you keep one item of importance undisclosed.
Scorpions can be cunning also. You are always very true and loyal, faithful and reliable. You continue to be so, till you come to know that your friend or master tries to let you down or tries to do you harm. Then you will be revengeful and relentless.

Characteristics to be corrected : Do not pass sarcastic remarks. Don't expect all your subordinates to be either as clever or hardworking as you are. So, do not be over critical. Control yourself whenever you lose your' temper. Try to avoid the secret enmity of the ladies. do not stood to foul play. Even if you lose, allow the loss ; wait ; shortly you will regain what all you lost.
 Do not be selfish. Mr. Max Heindele in "The Message , of the Stars" says "Scorpions not only refuse to work' themselves, but become demagogues who incite others to anarchy and lawlessness and destruction. 
 These people are social firebrands and very dangerous to the community" if thebad side of scorpio dominates.
Health : Scorpio governs the generative organs, the bladder, which have to cause disease ;.if they occupy Scorpio, they affect the bladder, womb, ovaries etc. Jupiter and Mars in Scorpio lead to trouble by enlargement of the prostrate gland. Venereal distemper is the main disease caused by Scorpio. 
 Stone in the bladder is caused mostly by Saturn.
For people born in Scorpio, the 6th house therefrom is the sign which indicates the disease ; therefore the disease signified by Aries, the planets occupying Aries, those in the constellation of the occupants, those in the constellation of lord of 6, and 
 Mars cause ailment. Therefore affections of the brain, insomnia, neuralgia, coma, trance, inflammation, obsession, somnambulism are signified by Aries.
Scorpio being a fixed sign, Moon is not only a 
 Rajayoga adhipathi but also a Bhadhaka Sthana
adhipathi. Therefore Moon may cause anxious ill- health to those who are born in Scorpio. Jupiter and 
 Venus are Maraka Sthana adhipathis. [6th house disease ; 2, 7 and 8 danger].
Finance and Fortune : Scorpio indicates chemistry, medicine, insurance, maternity beverage, breweries, boilers, steam engines, automobile, mine. military, water supply, dam construction, tools, machinery, slaughter house, labour department, tea, coffee, tobacco, copper, tin parboiled rice, jaggery, mine ores, horses and elephants, to excavate and catch elephants, etc. Greatest surgeons, chemists, research workers, detective and intelligent workers are born in this sign. Soldiers, dentists, barbers, butchers, those who work with iron and steel, rail loading, applied mechanics, military and naval activity art also indicated by Scorpio. Generally Scorpio-borns are lucky where money is concerned. In speculation, they will invariably gain as lord of 2 is also lord of 5. 
 Eventually, their income will be substantial. They are always lucky in anything they want vehicle, wife, business, house, garden, cattle etc. They know how to make money ; but they do not know to save it. They are extravagant.

Domestic Environment : For your jolly good life and success in your career, environment plays the vital part. Your ambition is that whatever you say in any matter, must be implicitly followed by others. You do not relish anyone to boss over you whereas you are happy to boss over others. You cannot lead your life without all comforts and conveniences. You spend much beyond your capacity. Expecting some income,
you will spend away in advance, wait for the returns and repay the loan. You want to design your home to your taste.
Even during adverse periods, you accept situations about You. You, very ably, turn them to your advantage. You create happiness. You prove to be successful and more happy than others placed under similar conditions.
Friends and Benefactors : What an extremist is the Scorpio-born? When they make friendship, they become very intimate in a very short period. But it there is any friction, you cannot find a worse enemy. Because Scorpio-borns retaliate relentlessly. Therefore Scorpio-borns do not have life, long friends. But the friends whom they choose will be in positions having much power and authority, or they will be influential. Knowing the nature of the 
 Scorpio-people, if one adjusts and gets close to them, he can have much benefit through them and can expect permanent tie of friendship.
You should not be violent. You will never accept others arguments. You do not want to show that you are convinced. But if you correct yourself, you will be very popular. Lower type of Scorpio will be notorious.
Every action has a reaction ; everyone is repaid in the same coin. 11th house indicates friends and benefactors. Mercury rules the 11th sign. He also governs the 8th house. Therefore the friends. 
 Mercurians also will not mind letting you down and bring you disgrace if you make their friendship, be a
good friend for some period and then rub them on the wrong side. Therefore, do not take anybody into your confidence and at any unguarded moment leak out any of your secret matters. No doubt, you are capable of keeping important ones to yourself. Yet observe this very strictly.

Romance and Marriage : Scorpio-borns have complex moods. Yet you are intense, dynamic and energetic in romance and love affairs. Unless you have sympathy, good understanding and steady affection and try to cultivate, you cannot have a pleasant and smooth life with the opposite sex. Though it is common to most of the people, it is especially true in Scorpio- borns that they consider this world a Heaven for them if they receive compliments and appreciation from the partner and that they became depressed or disgusted or downcast or broken down if the partner passes any criticism or do not approve the action of the
 Scorpio-borns.
In spite of these, people born in Scorpio give all comforts to the partners and try to keep them in cheer and good spirits. For, you expect the other to express his or her love ; you want demonstrations of affection. That is too much.
As houses 2, 7 and 11 indicate the birth of partner and the second house is owned by Jupiter, 7 by Venus and 11 by Mercury, the partner ruled by all the 3 benefics will be just, honest, sincere, and generally lucky to have a pleasing partner ; difficulties arise only when these houses are occupied or aspected by malefics.
Scorpio-brides enjoy their lives if the partners show equally a genuine affection and deep love. One is fortunate if she has her husband born in Scorpio. 
 She will lead a smooth life with people born in Pisces or Cancer ; she will agree with the husband, born in 
 Virgo or Capricorn Taurus husband will contribute for her happiness. He will tone down the fiery nature or the moody temperament of the girl. He knows how to dance or adjust, so that any disharmony among themselves is not let known to any one else. He cares more for honour and family prestige. The difficulty with 
 Scorpio-girls (only when the ascendant is afflicted) is that they work very hard, they are really true, but they suddenly loose temper, forget themselves and loudly retort without any consideration for the position of the husband.
A Scorpio-woman had her ascendant afflicted by the malefics. Once her husband unusually consented to feed a very old poetess and philosopher when the latter made a humble request to him. With all humility he very slowly and politely informed his wife. 
 Imagine her reaction ! Throughout the time she was engaged in preparing dish she was offering 
 Sahasranama archana to husband. Later while serving the food, when he appealed to offer a little more to the old lady, she without missing the aim, straight on his head broke the mud pot. The bottom being weak, gave way. But the mouth of the pot was strong. So she garlanded him with the ring of the mud pot.
Another Scorpio-woman poured a cupful of boiling soup on the head of her husband when he mentioned that she forgot to use salt on that day and that the soup was flat and insipid.
Therefore. It is a curse to marry a bride born in 
 Scorpio with adverse aspects to her Lagna and Mars. 
 One has to console himself by saying "This is my lot ; my fate". But if it receives good aspect or at least no bad aspect, one cannot get a better wife than Scorpio- borns.
Similarly, the Scorpio-gents will be. They will appreciate the qualities of their wives.

Children : Jupiter rules the houses 2 and 5 ; 11th house is governed by Mercury. Hence Jupiter and
 Mercury are the ruling planets of your children. 
 Therefore you will not mind having a large family. 
 You do not support birth control. You may preach for others. But you forget to practise. If Jupiter and 
 Mercury are afflicted by the conjunction with or adverse aspect from malefics, you may not have any child at all ; a few may have only one issue, mostly a daughter. 
 Generally, Jupiter, [the Chief Governor for children : 
 Mercury:the planet for plurality] being the lords of 2, 5 and 11 will increase the number of the members of the family to a good extent. The children will be not only intelligent but also lucky.

Lucky Day : Sundays, Mondays, Tuesdays, and
 Thursday are successful days : Sundays promise steady fortune Mondays will keep you in good spirits and you will rejoice. Theyare heydays. Thursdays presage fortune. Tuesdays bless you with health and victory will be had on Tuesdays. «
Fridays show social success and deterioration of bank position. Wednesdays may cause anxiety through friends. Saturdays dishearten you.
For profession, meet the influential people on 
 Sundays. Compete with others on Tuesdays. (Suppose you are losing popularity but yet you are in power, have the meeting to elect the President or a Secretary to the association, society or club on Tuesdays. 
 Victory is yours especially when Chithrai star first half is transited by Moon]. Transact with foreigners or make journey on Mondays. Marry on Thursdays and open account in the Bank on Thursdays.
Repay loan on a Saturday, especially when Moon transits in Anuradha star and in the Ascendant you have Mandhi. Never sign any important document on 
 Wednesdays. If you want to save money, avoid commitments on Fridays.
Lucky colour : Yellow, red, orange, cream are favourable. If you have no child or if you want sound bank position, use yellow sapphire on a pure gold ring If you have any litigation, have ruby. Success is yours. If you want to have higher studies or to go overseas, use cream coloured pearls. For steady prosperity in your career, use light red or orange colour.
Avoid blue, pure white and green.
Lucky numbers : 3, 9, 4, 1, 2 and 7 are in this order, lucky to you. Avoid 5, 6 and 8.
Objects indicated by Scorpio : Explosives, bombs, crackers, knives, swords, brandy, drinks, chemicals, oils, acids, petroleum, poison, carbon di- sulphide, chlooroform, ether, spirit, groundnut, linseed and mustard.
Places indicated by Scorpio : Wells where reptiles, scorpions, etc., brood, sinks, drains, cesspools, ruins near water, muddy and moist places, kitchen, garden, sluggish streams, slaughter houses, meat markets, operation theatre, lavatories, old rot iron stores, tannery, incinerators, chemical laboratories, cremation ground, etc.
Towns : Liverpool, Delhi, Frankfurt, Baltimore, 
 Stockport, Washington, New Castle, Messina, Dover, 
 Oregon, Ghent, Glossop, Halifax, Hull, Valentia, 
 Portland.
Countries : Sweden, Brazil, Morocco, 
 Transvaal, Norway, Syria, Bavaria, Algiers, Barbary, 
 Catalonia, Judaea, Fez, Jutland, Cappodistria, 
 Queensland.
Animate and inanimate objects indicated by 
 Scorpio are : powerful and influential people chief of the Corporation friends to good people. Legislative 
 Members, wanderers, heroes, rich and famous people, also thieves blackmarketeers, tax evaders all those which grow in autumn, says Varahamihira in 
 Brihat Samhita.

Sagittarius-Dhanus
Sagittarius is the ninth sign of the Zodiac. It extends from 240th degree from Vernal Equinox (Aries
The constellations Moolam, Poorvashada and 
 Uthrashada first quarter are contained in this sign, 
 Saggittarius.
According to Sayana System, Sun nowadays enters Sagittarius around 23rd November and leaves it around December 22nd. Sun moves daily, approximately 1 degree and 1 minute. To those who are born between 23rd November and 22nd December horoscopes erected by Sayana System, Sun will be marked in Sagittarius.
According to Nirayana System, throughout 
 Kaliyuga, Sun will enter Sagittarius, on the 15th 
 December and will leave it on 14th January every year. 
 Therefore Sun will be shown in Sagittarius, in the horoscopes of those who are born between 15th 
 December and 14th January, any year, if the charts are erected according to NirayanaSystem.
Sagittarius is the 9th sign of the Zodiac. But it is the first sign governed by Jupiter. It is a fiery sign, fixed, common, positive, masculine, hot, dry dual-double bodied (the first half Dhanus is human ; the second half is animal-bestial). It is of long ascension.
Jupiter is the ruler of this sign. No planet gets exalted in Sagittarius, nor does any become debilitated here. But Mercury is said to have its detriment i.e. weak in this sign.
Sun, Moon and Mars are said to occupy their friend's house when they are in this sign. Saturn, Venus and Mercury are considered to be in enemy's camp when they are in Sagittarius.
Sagittarius is pictured as half-man with bow and arrow and half horse. "Two birds at a shot" is indicated by Dhanus.
Its ruler is Jupiter, Jehovah, the Saviour. If one is suffering from any disease or meets with an accident, his life will be saved and hence it is said that 
 Jupiter's favourable aspect means that one will enjoy "Providential Help". "If Jupiter is with you nothing can go against your interests".

Physical Features : A well-proportioned and a well developed body ; tall, large forehead : high and bushy eyebrows ; long nose ; bright eyes ; charming appearance ; graceful look ; fair complexion and handsome figure.

Characteristics : Sagittarius is a fiery sign.
 Hence you will be hold, courageous and pushful. You will be ambitious, greedy and aspiring. You will look on the bright side of things. You will not be timid. You will not flutter nor fear and tremble even in adverse conditions. You will be dauntless and with self- confidence ; you will work against odds. You are at your best only when there are obstacles. Fiery sign gives you energy, enthusiasm, vigour, vitality, etc.
Being a common sign, it indicates that you will weigh the merits and demerits of each case and finally take a dicision. Aries people will be impulsive and rash, whereas Sagittarians are those who act after deep consideration. You may delay to. start a work or undertake any venture, because you would have taken time to contemplate:plan and scheme.
Being a masculine sign, you do not hesitate much to think, speak out or act as you desire. You love only truth. You hold on to your principle to the last, even
though you are aware that your action may bring unpleasant results. You will speak out what you feel right, without considering how others will relish such statements.
An astrologer was in the midst of a dozen new clients. When they were about to consult, a 
 Saggittarian, an old customer, came in and said "Sir, . better you give up your profession. Your predictions have gone West. Not one came true. Honestly I tell, you, better you learn more before you try to earn. Not only has your prediction miserably failed as regards my promotion in service ; I am shocked to understand that I will be retrenched".
Look at the embarrassed position of the astrologer in the presence of new clients.
Another Sagittarian enters a lawyer's chamber and behaves similarly, as he lost his case.
Another Sagittarian places a surgeon in a similar bad situation, when the patient died though he was informed that the operation was successful.
Hence Sagittarians should be given interviews only when the practitioners are alone.
Sagittarius being the 9th sign of the Zodiac, you - will try to have higher education. You are fond of long travel. You have the desire to develop friendship with foreigners. You are highly philosophical, religious minded and God-fearing.
Jupiter, being the lord of the sign, gives you broad mind confidence, truth, spiritual uplift, etc. You will be
fond of sport ; your outstanding features are justice, sympathy and courage. You will have quick grasp and retentive power as the 9th and 10th houses to 
 Sagittarius are governed by Sun and Mercury, which are mostly found in anyone sign causing Nipuna yoga. 
 So Sagittarians understand quickly and assimilate new ideas. Your intuition will be correct. You are for justice. If you find that someone is done injustice, you will fight out and arrange that the victim gains his or her rightful claims.
Venus generally indicates what one will like most. 
 As Venus owns the sixth house, you will have dogs and other pet animals. As lord of 11, you will have many benefactors. You desire to be in the midst of the opposite sex. You make friendship is a moment and you maintain it for a long number of years.
As Moon owns the 8th house, you will have unnecessary distrust and you will change your opinion often.

Characteristics to be corrected : If the ascendant or the planet in the Ascendant is afflicted, even though you are mostly good, yet your behaviour occasionally will be inconsiderate. You may lack tact.
 None else can praise you better than what you can do. Exaggeration and continuous speech without truth are also shown. You will make promises but you will not keep them up. Do not insult or hurt others by giving your opinion even though you may be correct. Be a moderate. Do not develop hatred towards your parents and brothers.
Health : Sagittarius governs the hips, the thighs, the loins, Ilium, femur, buttocks, glutinous muscles, sacral arteries etc.
Hence one may suffer from sciatica, rheumatic pain, fracture in the hip, lumbago, gout, eusonophilia, lung trouble. Mars and Saturn in Sagittarius cause fracture of the bones as also ulcer in the thigh needing the surgeon's aid. e
Jupiter in Dhanus threatens the native with gout and pulmonary apoplexy. Jupiter in Poorvashada star causes diabetes. Saturn alone indicates contusions of the hips, T.B., chronic pulmonary disease, asthma etc. Moon indicates bronchitis, pneumonia, diabetes. 
 Sun causes defective hearing and poor vision. Venus indicates tumour, diabetes etc. Mercury shows hiccough, asthma, etc.
To Sagittarius, Mercury is a Rajyogadhipathi, by owning the 10th house. It is also the Bhadhaka Sthana adhipathi by owning the 7th house, as Sagittarius is a common sign. To chara rasi, 11th house ; to fixed rasi 9th house ; to common sign 7th house Mercury is a 
 Kendhrathipathi. (Houses 1, 4, 7 and 10 are called 
 Kendhra Sthanas). As houses 2 and 7 are termed as 
 Maraka Sthanas, Mercury owning the seventh house is the strongest evil also (other than Rajayoga adhipathyam) to cause fatal disease.
Finance and Fortune : Being a fiery sign, you do not like others ordering you ; nor will you prefer to sit tight in one place and work. Your desire is to have frequent changes. You fare well when you are given a free hand.
As Jupiter rules this sign, you will be a teacher. public speaker, bank employee, or one attached to any religious institution. Politics will prove to be lucky if Jupiter is not afflicted.
Mercury, being lord of 10, indicates that you may edit, publish and have larger income through advertisement. You will be a good auditor. You may master Company-law. You will be a Civil Engineering contractor. You may work in foreign embassy or in foreign affairs. Planets in any manner connected with houses 2, 6 or 10 occupying Sagittarius can offer one service in mines, transport and engineering also. 
 Speculation will not be helpful and profitable to 
 Sagittarians, as lord of 5 is also lord of 12. But those who have the lords of 1, 2, 3, 6 and 11 posited in 
 Poorvashada star will get rich quickly and they will have gains without pains.

Domestic Environments : You do not like your close relatives. But you will be generous to the other sex and be friendly with them. You will spend much on your children. Those who have no children will spend on educational Institutions, or renovation of temple, etc.
 You will be kind to others and not to your kith and kin. At home you are a failure, even though the 4th house is owned by the lord of the ascendant. You are denied the independence which you desire to have in your house.
Finance and benefactors : It is not at all difficult for you to make friendship with any one. In your experience you will understand that you may have some silly quarrels with a stranger on an impulse and
you will develop permanent friendship with him. It is similar to a passenger who has taken his seat in the II class in the train and fights with a person, who tries to get in. The person will take his seat just opposite to him. The train will steam off. It will run for some minutes. Then gradually they begin to talk and before they reach the destination, they become very friendly and each takes the address of the other. Later they become good friends. Similarly Sagittarians and 
 Gemini- people will make friendship. 11th house shows friends and benefactors. 6th house indicates enmity and open quarrel. To Gemini-horns Mars is lord of 6 and 11. To Sagittarius-borns, Venus is the lord of the 6th and 11th houses Hence such results will be given by them, especially during their sub periods.
Invariably you will be liked by your friends. Your sweet smile and quick wit will bring you many friends. 
 People born on Fridays or in Taurus and Libra or in the nakshatras Barani, Poorvapalguni and 
 Poorvashada will be your long-standing friends. Those born in Hastham star will bring ill-repute to you as lord of 8 will be in the constellation of lord of 8 in the tenth house.
Romance and Marriage : If you are a male, your wife should be wise and tactful. Because, your temper will generally flare up quickly and she can understand that it lasts only for a short time. So if she understands you properly and conducts herself tactfully, then the married life will be pleasant. Further the male will be interested in games, sports, Society clubs, etc. 
 Hence he will spend his time mostly in other activities and it will appear as though his family life is not important to
him. As he is a person of integrity and morals, with maturity coming late in his life, it is his wife who is to be broadminded, adjusting and accommodative.
If a person marries a girl born in Sagittarius, the person is lucky. Whatever a man expects of his wife, all those will be round in her. She will never interfere in his affairs. She will not suggest anything to her husband unless she is asked for. But with or without his knowledge, she will try to be helpful to her husband. 
 She will be calm, clever, competent and considerate. 
 Even though she is sure that her husband is wrong, yet she will be modest and polite to bring it to his notice and with all humility offer him advice. One is really lucky to marry a girl born in Sagittarius.
Houses 2, 7 and 11 indicate the partner. Second house is ruled by Saturn, seventh by Mercury and eleventh by Venus. Hence these 3 planets who are "friendly with one another when, well posited and not adversely aspected by Mars, give you the most reliable, faithful, dutiful, pleasant and intelligent wife. 
 But if Mars afflicts lord of 2 and 11, then the partner may have chances to have contact with more than one.

Children : Houses 2, 5 and 11 indicate the birth of children. So Saturn, Mars and Venus are the lords.
 Your children will not be fondled by you when they are young. But as age, advances, you will take much interest in them. You should not allow them to feel that you doubt their behaviour, movements etc. If you curb their independence, they become more obstinate and strong-willed. It will not be possible for you to correct them. Therefore, you must be very tactful in dealing with your children.
Lucky days : Wednesdays and Fridays are very lucky. Thursdays promise success. Mondays cause anxiety and troubles. Tuesdays shows extravagant expenses and loss Sundays are pleasant and prosperous. Saturdays indicate slow, steady progress and assistance from others. 
 Speculate on Fridays. If there is any election, have the Polling on Fridays. For litigation, Fridays and 
 Saturdays are successful ones.
Sign contracts on Wednesdays. Avoid Mondays and Tuesdays. Make long journeys on Sundays. Write examinations on Thursdays or interview officials on 
 Thursdays and Fridays. «
Do Shanthi, Prayer, Homa, etc. on Tuesdays, 
 Wednesdays and Fridays.
Lucky colour : White, cream, green, orange and light blue, Avoid red and pearls.
Emerald bestows on you name, fame, reputation, larger yield from investment promotion and prosperity.
White cream shades show success in litigation, victory over enemies, pleasure and profit.
Orange colour is auspicious for assistance from 
 Government, connections with foreigners and for long journeys.
Light blue indicates increase in self-acquisition, good understanding with colleagues, support from people in authority and power.
If you use ruby and red colour, it makes you more short-tempered, rash and reckless, resulting in great loss.
Lucky numbers : 6, 5, 3 and 8. Of these 6 and 8 are for finance, family and fortune. Avoid 2, 7 and 9.
Objects indicated by Sagittarius : Moolam constellation governs medicine, physicians, flowers, roots, fruits, seeds, etc.
Poorvashada shows fish, aquatic animals, aquatic fruits and flowers.
Uthrashada in Sagittarius indicates horses, elephants, warriors, etc. (Brihat Samhita) arrows ; spears ; swords ; needles, poles, sticks, canes, rope, race horses, tooth picks, crowbars, drills, chisels, yAyurvedic medicinal herbs, etc.
Places : Hills, in a house the topmost room, places next to the oven, stables of healthy horses, receptacles for cattle, places where ammunition is stored and weapons are .preserved, churches, temples, schools and colleges, courts, woods and bushes.
Countries : Australia, Arabia, Madagascar, 
 Hungary, Sclaronia, Tuscany, Spain, Istria, Dalmatia, 
 Italy. '
Towns : Naples, Narbonne, Stutland, Avignon, 
 Sheffield, Rottenberg, Cologne, Buda, Bradford, West 
 Bromwich, Torouts, Toledo, Portland, Nottingham.

Capricorn - Makaram
Capricorn is the tenth sign of the Zodiac. It is also 30 in longitude. It extends from 270th degree from
the Vernal Equinox (Aries 0 - Mesha 0) to 300. Sun had reached the southernmost in its path (called the ecliptic) and takes the northen course from 270th degree. 
 It is popularly known as Makara Sankranthi. 
 When the Sun is in the 270th degree counted from the 
 Vernal equinox, exactly half a day is over for those in the South Pole and the other half of the day. is to run. 
 For people in the North pole, it is exact midnight.
The Nakshathras or the constellation Uthrashada second, third and fourth quarters. Sravanam, 
 Dhanishta first and sccond padas are contained in this sign, Capricorn-Makara.
According to Sayana system, the Sun, nowadays, enters. Capricorn on or around 22nd 
 December every year and leaves Capricorn on or around 21st January. The Sun moves daily. approximately 1 8'. to 1 11'. To those who are born between 23rd December and 21st January, any year horoscopes cast by following. Sayana system, the Sun will be shown in the sign Capricorn.
But, according to Nirayana system, throughout 
 Kaliyuga, the Sun will enter Capricorn or Makara on the 14th January and leave Nirayana Capricorn on or around 12th February every year. If the charts are erected, following stellar astrology or Nirayana system, 
 Sun will be marked in Capricorn in the horoscopes of
the persons born between 14th January and 12th 
 February, both days inclusive.
Capricorn-Makara is the 10th sign of the Zodiac. 
 It is the first sign governed by Saturn. The other sign which Saturn owns, is called Aquarius and is next to 
 Capricorn.
Capricorn is a chara-movable-cardinal, solstitial, tropical, negative, feminine, earthy, dry, cold, quadrupedal, persevering, despondent sign of short- ascension in the southern-hemisphere.
Saturn gets debilitated in the sign (owned by 
 Mars) Aries-Mesha. But Mars gets exalted in the sign (owned by Saturn) in Capricorn-Makara. Jupiter gets debilitated in this sign. Whenever Capricorn is occupied by both the luminaries Sun and Moon, they are said to be in enemy's camp. But Venus and- 
 Mercury are considered to occupy the friend's residence when they are in Capricorn.
Capricorn is the sign of sacrifice. It is said that at the time of the birth of Jesus, the Sun had just entered Capricorn which is the symbol of resurrection.
Even today, in India, the goat is the sacrificial animal. Whosoever that sacrifices himself is a 
 Capricornian. The popular saying, "He was the goat" is applicable to one born in Makara.

Physical Features : Saturn, the lord of the sign, shows that one will be emaciated, weak and grow slowly. The body will not bemuscular or plumpy, but slender. One grows tall suddenly after 16 years of age.
 As one advances in age, his constitution also
improves. The face will be thin and oval. The nose will be long, eyes deep set. The hair will be coarse. (Saturn and Sun indicate growth of hair. Weak Saturn shows that there will not be sufficient growth of hair in the forehead, Well-posited Saturn indicates profuse growth). Saturn rules this sign. He governs the osseous system in the body. If Saturn is ill-posited for those born in Capricorn, one may suffer from T.B. of the bones or mottled enamel or fluorine intoxication. As age advances, the person becomes hunch-backed, There will be scar in the knee-cap or at least a mole.

Characteristics : Capricorn is an earthy sign ; so, the person will be economical, prudent, reasonable, thoughtful, methodical and _ practical minded. It confers plodding, persevering and patiently working temperament. The person will be calculative and business-like.
Capricorn is a movable sign ; hence one will quickly execute any work after taking carefully a decision. He will have the push and confidence. He will not hesitate to have a thorough change in his career, if it is found to be advantageous.
He will have a special organising capacity and with enormous tolerance, patience and steady nature, he will be at the head of certain projects, however large they may be.
Being a feminine sign, owned by Saturn it gives one the reserved nature and fear of ridicule. He will not entertain any hope on others' promises, nor will he be optimistic till he comes out successful or realises his ambition. It is not easy to cheat the Capricornians.
Further, the person will appear to be modest and polite. He will not make friendship with anybody quickly. He will take a long time to test the individual and finally make a permanent tie of friendship.
Saturn, who owns this house, indicates that one will be either honest, sincere and reliable or the most conceited, dishonest, selfish, greedy, miserly, never hesitating to commit any crime. Purposeful Saturn shows that Capricornians will never spend their time in idle talk. Lethargic Saturn suggests that the person needs another man to kindle him to do a task. 
 Normally, he will not take action then and there, but postpone it to the last moment. At the instance of another, he will start doing the job : when once he takes it up, he will be at it (till is finished). Delaying Saturn may not confer success on him immediately. One need not call it as “disapointment" : because, like Robert 
 Bruce, he will make repeated attempts and will finally come out successful. If he is given encouragement, with enthusiasm he will complete the work. Obstacles and hindrances will depress him for some time ; but he will not leave it. People who dive in the sea and mine excavators are governed by Saturn or Capricorn. 
 Till he finds the spring, he will be digging the well.
Further it shows that one will utilise everything to a material purpose.
Generally, Venus presages those which one will desire to have. As it owns the houses 5 and 10 and since Saturn owns the sign Capricorn, he will try to have pleasurable pursuits, will be fond of music, drama, cinema, etc., will speculate, will have proper
Guru (Preceptor) to initiate him a 'Mantra' and will be fortunate to have success.
Moon owns the seventh house. So one will be always having a company. Otherwise, there will be depression. Whenever they work, study or travel they will have the company of a friend to keep themselves cheerful and active.
This sign also produces many great men, especially in politics. Saturn in the tenth house will be exalted. In certain sub in Libra, Saturn gains such an influence, that Capricorns having Saturn in such positions, will think something ; speak something and do something else. They will be highly tactful, diplomatic, clever, cunning and selfish and will not be grateful to any while Mercury gives the native the power to remember one and all before election and totally forget immediately after selection. But good aspect between Saturn and Mercury in the horoscope of such persons is a fortune to the country as they will work for others. They will not have any favouritism. They abide by the moral law. The disadvantage is that they will be slow and steady in their ventures with the blessing of the Providence for ultimate grand success.

Characteristics to be corrected :
If either the ascendant in Capricorn or the lord of the ascendant. Saturn, were to receive bad aspects from any other planet,
(a) the native will be mostly selfish and egoistic.
(b) Rarely will he be optimistic but mostly pessimistic. He will become desperate and broken-hearted.
(c) He will overwork and exert too much.
(d) He will contemplate, meditate and tax himself very much. Due to overstrain he will feel fatigued.
Hence, the native should correct himself after understanding that he may not be aware of his faults or defects and that one born in Capricorn will have the above undesirable characteristics.
He should develop dignity and diplomacy, avoid nervousness and discontent.

Health :
Capricorn governs the knees and the patella bones. Saturn signifies the complete bony structure. 
 Capricorn also governs the dry epidermis.
Hence the injury to the part of the body, near the knee cap, urticaria, skin disease, eczema, bruises, dislocation, etc., are indicated when the lord of the sixth house occupies Capricorn and to those having malefics in the ascendant in Capricorn.
Hysteria, rheumatism and cold are indicated by the owner of this sign, i.e., Saturn.
As people born in this sign will be depressed and discontented, worried and gloomy, gradually the digestive system will become weak and it may cause flatulence.
Capricorn opposing Cancer may cause pulmonary affection and in 6 to Leo may cause trouble to the heart.
In a large number of horoscopes it was found that evil planet in Capricorn affect the heart of the native during the period of the malefic occupying Capricorn.
It is advantageous to be in the midst of cheerful youngsters. Take heating and stimulating food. Include laxative. Have regular physical exercise. Never jump and fall down. Avoid "High jump, pole jump", etc.
Saturn in Uthrashada threatens murmur of heart : 
 Mars in Uthrashada shows cardiac thrombosis. Rahu and Kethu in Uthrashada cause blood pressure. 
 Uranus causes heart failure.
Planets in Sravanam star, show affection of the lungs, eczema etc.
Planets in Dhanishta threaten high fever, bronchitis, pneumonia, urticaria, bruises, fracture, dislocation, etc.
Capricorn is a movable sign. Hence the 11th house there from is the Bhadhakasthana. The lord of the 11th house, Scorpio, is Mars. Hence Mars is not good for longevity.
The second and seventh houses are Maraka 
 Sthanas. Even though Saturn is the lord of the ascendant, as he is, by nature, the chief governor for’ longevity and as also he owns the owns 2nd house, 
 Aquarius, the Maraka-Sthana, Saturn, will end one's life.
7th house is owned by Moon. Hence Mars, Saturn and Moon are evil and they will cause death.
It is said that Sun, who owns Leo, the eighth house, does not become evil due to its lordship 
 Jataka-chandrika. By that one is to understand that unless Sun gains evil results by conjoining with or aspected by Saturn, Mars and Moon, it will not cause death. (One should not judge, that it becomes wholly good. Not at all As regards longevity, it will not normally prove to be evil. But, during its periods and sub periods one will face many difficulties and will be in trouble.)
Mercury, lord of 6, will affect health. Hence 
 Vitamin 'B' deficiency, gas trouble and general nervous debility may be expected during the periods and sub periods of Mercury.
One is to understand clearly that Saturn, Mars and Moon will cause danger and anxiety to one's longevity in their conjoined sub periods in the major ‘period of evil planet whereas Mercury will repeatedly give, more or less, the same diseases.

Finance and Fortune
Capricorn-borns are conservatives. They will never mind the difficulties, handicaps and hindrances ; but will continue to work in the same direction till they come out successful. Their ambition forces and drives them to persevere. They have the desire to gain name, fame, reputation and money. They will try not to miss the bus, but avail of all the opportunities arising. They will consolidate all their affairs and resources. As a business man born in any of the 12 signs during 
 Jupiter dasa one will be going on expanding his business and opening many branches in different
parts. But the same business man, during Saturn dasa and during the dasa of planets in Capricorn, will consolidate and concentrate. They are pessimistic by nature.
They do not speculate. They will invest on permanent possessions after carefully scrutinising the documents and having obtained enough of security.
They are industrious. They save money slowly and steadily. As long as they do not speculate, take chances and risks, how can they expect a windfall. 
 They do not waste money. If they serve others, they will prove to be most economical, correct, trust worthy, well-informed and wide-awake workers. They are best fitted to serve in the Finance Department. They will always think of the future and save satisfactorily for the ‘rainy day' or to meet unexpected and uncommon expenses.
Saturn being the lord of Capricorn and also the second house, the native may deal in such things or serve in such places as are mentioned below. Further good aspect from planets to the ascendant or to the lord of the ascendant, Saturn indicates the following professions. Sun forming good aspect indicates service in quasi-government, municipality, local boards, Corporation or Government, dealing in mine ores or organising and managing big institutions. The native will layout money on wholesale business or invest on lands, buildings, etc., which may be let out for rent for Government use.
Moon forming good aspect shows that the person will deal with kerosene, lands and animals. He
will be a successful agriculturist. He may excavate wells, build tanks or may be a contractor to reinforce the bund of lakes, etc.
Mars forming favourable aspect is necessary for engraver of metal, masons, engineers, surveyors, cement manufacturers (Venus also must form aspect for cement, and leather manufacture), surgeons (Sun too), lawyers (Jupiter also), brick-kiln owners, etc.
Mercury forming good aspect produces 
 Engineers, detective novel writers, deep thinkers, teachers (Mathematics, Physics), dealers in scientific instrument and gives chances to work in C.I.D. department (Mars also), it produces experts in handprint, forgery ; it is advantageous to those who practise concentration, crystal-grazing yoga, etc.
Jupiter forming good aspect shows that one may be a physician or a scientist. One may gain through clubs and societies. He may manage large companies, or may serve Religious Endowment 
 Board. He may gain through lands and mine products. 
 He is also likely to serve in the Education, Finance or 
 Legal department of Government. He may take contracts on a longterm basis.
Venus forming good aspect makes one patient and honest, steady and sincere. He may deal in chemical, mine ores, leather and hides, or may serve in slaughter house, birth control ; may be a sanyasi without any attraction to the opposite sex he may invest his money on gardens and lands. The people working in the cremation or burial ground will also have this aspect. [Purohits, having good aspect between .:
Jupiter and Venus are experts in conducting a marriage whereas Purohits having good aspect between Saturn and Venus are conversal with disposals].
Uranus forming good aspect gives good knowledge in occult sciences : the person is an expert in mental healing or healing on without any drug. He may serve in the Railway ; he may practise astrology or study Geology : he will be interested in collecting curios, in preserving monuments, etc. (Venus also).
Neptune forming good aspect shows success in secret service, submarine liquids, oils. sub-soil materials etc. He should not overtrade. Then he will be successful. Long journeys on land or sea will prove to be advantageous.

Domestic Environments
Generally, Capricorn-borns are not very anxious to get married early. But they have it, because they have to marry and are destined to marry. They do not want many children. Yet they become the parents of a large family. The never fail to do their duty. They do love their wives and children, but do not display their love. So the children may mistake that the Capricorn parents treat them coldly.
They collect things which are beautiful and will try to have a library of their own. They hate noise but want a quiet atmosphere and privacy. They prefer seclusion and peace. These are the reasons for their family members to mistake them.
Even if the wife (or husband is argumentative and quarrelsome he (or she) will be mostly absent 239
from the scene ; and avoid to retort ; the fire of anger will have its own natural death. Why? Because the care for the prestige and the honour of a family life even through the partner is bent upon doing harm.
Friends and benefactors : Normally the native does not take anybody into his confidence. But he will be known to many. He will have a large number of acquaintances. Good friends will be a few only. He will be true to his friends and respects them throughout life.
As he can keep others cheerful by his witty conversation, he is best fitted to be an active member of societies and clubs. He will find that those who are born on Tuesdays on in the sign Scorpio or in the three stars Mrigasirisha. Chithra and Dhanishta are his benefactors. They will never hesitate to lend him assistance ; in fact, he will realise that they help him even without his asking for it. He will also find that people born in Bharani, Poorvapalguni and 
 Poorvashada stars are very helpful to him.
As lord of 11 owns the 4th house also, he may receive benefits through mother. Co-tenants will co- operate. The author strongly advises the Capricornians to take buildings on a rental basis, and sub let a portion of it for the total rental value. Thus they can live in the same premises, without paying any rent. It is 'their luck.
The Capricorn-borns will have broadminded rich persons as friends who will own cars and give them free lift, though not as a gift.
240.
Romance and Marriage : Even though the native may have affection, he will never give expression to it nor will he be fit for romance, dance, etc. He will not be emotional. He will be very slow and cautious when he approaches the other sex. He will not be bold or rash : never will he take the lead. He will ask the other very tactfully, obtain her consent once, twice and even thrice and even then, be will be afraid to proceed further. The other sex will be worried by the hesitancy of the man born in 
 Capricorn.
Anyhow, it is true that he will take a long time to choose his partner.
Houses 2, 7 and 11 indicate marriage. The lords of the signs are Saturn, Moon and Mars. Find out which is the strongest in your horoscope. The feature, the characteristics, etc., will be governed by the strongest of the three.
If the lord of 2, Saturn, is strong and well posited, the marriage will take place during Saturn, sub period. 
 The partner will be selfish but will be very economical. 
 She will not permit the native to spend money : she will observe tradition and custom of the family and she will be industrious.
If Moon, the lord of 7, is very strong, the partner will be timid and poor in health. She will desire to have frequent change of residence. She will be unsteady ; yet, she will be much attached to the native and to the other members of the family. She will be sympathetic, patient, devoted and adaptable. She will need the assistance from the husband and will prove to be most accommodative.
If Mars, the lord of 11, is the strongest of the three planets, the partner will be modern and masculine. She will prove to be an able and faithful wife, she will manage the whole family. She will be a hard worker, an excellent cook and an extravagant hostess. She will not give freedom to the person born in Capricorn. 
 She will direct everything and maintain strict discipline. 
 Marriage is generally fixed and celebrated suddenly at a very early age.

Children : Even though one may have many children, he will never fondle with them. He will do his duty. He will not mix with them or join in their play or allow them to make noise. He will want them to be quiet and attend to their work. He will not allow his children to go beyond a limit. He will keep them under control.
 At the same time he will not antagonize them. As years pass on, the children will understand that inwardly their father has strong affection for them, though he does not give expression to it, because the children will realise that their father considers their welfare as the first change in his life and will work hard for their comforts and conveniences.
Lucky Days : Fridays Tuesdays and Saturdays are the best. Wednesdays are successful. Thursdays and Sundays show expenses. Mondays end in enmity or litigation.
Speculate on Tuesdays and Fridays.
Invest on Saturdays : sign documents on 
 Tuesdays.
Compete on Wednesdays : go on long journey on Wednesdays. Avoid Mondays and Sundays.
Pray God or Goddess on Fridays or Tuesdays.
Lucky Colours : White, red and blue are lucky colours. Avoid yellow and cream colours.
White (diamond) gives lucky and beautiful children : speculative gains ; success in music, cinema, drama, etc., success in pleasurable pursuits, politics and profession. In business, he will have unexpected advantages, improvement and assistance from Government officials, etc.
Red colour gives the native building, land, property, vehicle and good friends.
Blue colour is auspicious for health, long life financial success and happy family life.
Lucky numbers :
6, 15, 24, 33, 42,51 ands° on ; 9,19, 27, 36, 45,54" " . 8, 17, 26, 35, 44,53" " - Avoid 3, 12, 21, 30, 48, 57"
Objects ‘indicated by Capricorn : Uthrashada star in Capricorn indicates devotees of Gods, soldiers, immovable properties, wholesale business, 
 Corporation. Municipality etc.
Sravanam constellation denotes active persons, true and honest people, jugglers, devotees of Vishnu, liquids in sub-soil, submarine, agriculture and animals.
Dhanishta star signifies people without egoism, men not liked by their wives, eunuchs, rich people, persons purchasing peace, sympathetic gents and
unsteady friends. It also shows masons, builders, surveyors and engineers ; ice chest, leather shoes, logs, coffin, cement, brick, mortar, snow and skeleton.
Places indicated by Capricorn : Safe vaults, cells, isolation, hospitals, asylums, jails, burial ground, tombs, morturies, cattleshed, barren land, holes, pits, icy locality, congested areas, dungeons, old buildings, tanks, temples, caves, thick jungle, cool house, lumber- rooms, stores, dunghills, low houses, etc.
Countries and Towns : India, Punjab, Circram, 
 Macedonia, Macian Illyria, Thrace, Bosnia, Morea, 
 Bulgaria, Romandiola, Albania, Stiun, Syria, parts of 
 Persia, Afghanistan, Mecklenburg, Hess, Mexico, 
 Orkney islands.
Keighley, Salisbury, Brussels, Oxford, 
 Bradenburg, Prato Fayence, Tortano, Mayence.

Aquarius - Kumbba
Aquarius is the eleventh sign of the Zodiac. It is also 30 in longitude. It extends from 30Qth degree from
the Vernal Equinox (Aries 0 - Mesha 0) to 330. Sun will be in its northern course.
The Nakshathras or asterisms or stars or constellations, Dhanishta later half, Sathabhisha, 
 Poorvapathra ist 2nd and 3rd padas (quarters) are « contained in this sign, Aquarius - Kumbha. 
 According to Sayana system, the Sun, nowadays, enters Aquarius on or around 21st January and leaves Aquarius on or around 19th February. The
Sun in this moves daily approximately 1 0' 54" to
1° 0' 16". In the horoscopes erected according to 
 Sayana System, for people born during this time of the year Sun will be shown in the sign Aquarius.
But according to Nirayana system, throughout 
 Kaliyuga, the Sun will enter Aquarius on 13th February and leave it on 12th March any year. If the charts are erected for people born on any of the dates in this time of any year, Sun will be shown in Aquarius.
Kumbha-Aquarius is the 11th sign of the Zodiac. 
 Saturn owns two houses Capricorn and Aquarius. 
 This is the second sign governed by Saturn. Before the discovery of Uranus (Herschel) both the Hindu sages and the western astrologers allotted this house of Saturn. After the discovery of Herschel, the 
 Western savants allotted Aquarius to Uranus.
No planet enjoys exaltation in this sign ; nor does any planet after debilitation. But this sign is a friendly one to Mercury and Venus, whereas it is said to be the enemy's camp for the 4 other planets Sun, Moon, 
 Mars and Jupiter. Saturn is strong in this sign and the qualities ascribed to this sign agree with those of 
 Uranus.
Aquarius is symbolised with out pouring out water from a vessel. The Hebrews called Aquarius "Delphi" meaning "water container". Aquarius is an airy sign with high humidity. It represents mostly the rain from the air, as the air enveloping the earth evaporates the water on the earth, holds it in air, form clouds and pours as rain. In the human system, Aquarius is the distributor of water and gas. It helps recovery from the sinking life and and rejuvination, with satisfactory
strength, just like the perishing planets (say grass, etc.) again regain life and we are delighted.
Aquarius is called an airy, fixed sthira, moist, positive, human and voice sign. It is of short ascension.

Physical Features : Though this sign is of short ascension, yet people born in Aquarius are tall with full stature. They are strong. Face will be oval ; complexion will be fair ; appearance handsome, of the 12 signs, the signs Venus and Aquarius produce beautiful children. Teeth may be defective. The hair has a brown shade. There may be a mole or scar in the calf muscle.

Characteristics : Aquarius is an airy sign ; so, the Aquarians will be intelligent. One cannot fool them by flattery and serve his purpose. They can read the character of others and they can find the motives of others. Saturn ruling the airy sign shows that they consider the merits and demerits of every case purposely slowly, so that they can observe what others do, watch and see the results, and then they act.
 Though they are intelligent, they are a bit slow in grasping and absorbing fresh ideas, but they never forget as they have good retentive power.
Being the eleventh sign of the zodiac, they have a broad outlook human understanding, are outspoken, unselfish, humane and impersonal. Though they are very Social, yet they select friends and they are silent workers in any society or club. They always make efforts to bring about harmony and they change any condition which is either undesirable or
unhealthy or 246
detrimental for further progress. Hence they are above reproach. So, they allow others to 'Bell the cat' which is the, result of airy saturn.
Uranus, being the other owner of the sign shows not only they are shrewed, clear-head quick-whitted and wide-away but they have also the desire to improve and raise the mental standard of all. They are always far ahead in fresh ideas, new thoughts, new approach to problems improved design for living etc. 
 They have their own way of thinking ; they use their own discretion. They always originate new ideas. It is not uncommon they act in a way which shows that the laws are not intended for them. They will not hesitate to do any unusual or irregular thing, if they consider it to be morally all right. Even in dress they do not dress like others. They have their own individuality, mannerism, peculiarity and speciality. 
 They have intuition ; inclination towards science. 
 Aquarius being a fixed sign, the natives are very constant in their friendship. They always stick on to any principle. They are usually persistent in all their undertakings and they succeed in the' long run. They are best fitted for research work. They are very strong in their likes and dislikes. They will go ahead to do anything for their good friends whereas one cannot bring pressure on them and have anything done, if they do not agree to the principle. They are stubborn but not fool-hardy. This house is the House of 'Kama’. 
 Generally 'Kama' means pleasure and pleasant union. But the real meaning of 'Kama is 'desire'. In the four Dharma, Artha, Kama, Moksha Purusharthas, 
 Aquarius denotes 'Kama'.
Leo-Simha, the 5th sign of the zodiac has to.show pleasurable pursuits for worldly life Ikha-Loka-Sukha. 
 But Para Loka. Sadhana being opposite to worldly pleasures, the kama sign for Para Loka Sadhana 
 Aquarius is one which opposes the Ikha Loka Sukha pleasure sign, Leo-Simha.
So Aquarius shows that the Aquarians have a desire to let physical subject. They develop intuition and inspiration. They prefer secluded deep meditation and good concentration. It is no wonder that they become asceties at least at a time when they can leave this world. They do not preach to others ; but they always practise. They are called "Munis" ; they observe fast, penance, etc. They develop their mental will. Aquarians prefer sociology as a special science.
Jupiter, the fortunate planet, owning the houses 2 and 11, generally blesses the native with good family and satisfactory bank position.
Mars, ruling the 3rd and 10th houses, gives the inclination to study, to do research, to be bold and courageous and finally to attain name, fame and reputation through ultimate success. Venus ruling the houses 4 and 9, shows attachment to both the parents, higher education etc. It favours research overseas, etc.
(They will enjoy the fruits of life in this world. As 
 Jupiter rules 2 and 11 and Venus governs 4 and 9, and because Poorvashada is governed by Venus in 
 Jupiter's sign, generally people born In Aquarius will be fortunate during the period of the planet occupying 
 Poorvashada indicated by the occupant).
Mercury ruling the 8th house and Moon the 6th house show that the Aquarians have always food for thought, and will be ever contemplating, planning and scheming. If they are afflicted, they have the tendency to breed melancholy and be recluses ;.they are strong pessimists.

Characteristics to be corrected : If either the ascendant or Saturn, the lord of ascendant, is afflicted, by the adverse aspect from any planet.
(a) the native will be lazy and lethargic, and hence he should cultivate activity, promptness, etc.- ;
(b) he should avoid solitude ; (c) he should not be worried and gloomy;
(d) he should not be a pessimist ; (e) he should not be pushful and alert;
he should not be very rigid towards those whom the Aquarians dislike.

Health : As Aquarius opposes the sign of Sun, the Aquarians are susceptible to infectious disease.
 If one feels fatigue on little exertion, one should at once consult intelligent and capable physician. Tooth trouble and tonsils may cause troubles - Saturn being a cold planet and Aquarius being an airy sign, they will not have satisfactory circulation : they cannot withstand cold weather and they have to warm up the limbs and feet. They should attend immediately after any injury or abrasions. They should avoid living in malaria- infected areas. One should not overtax one-self. One
should take rest, then and there. As Aquarius is the 11th sign of the zodiac, one's ankle of limb may be affected. One should guard against varicose veins. The heart may cause trouble ; it may be rheumatic or there may be blood pressure. The legs may swell. Afflicted 
 Venus causes skin disease, eczema, etc. One may suffer from eye trouble. Moon causes dropsy, 
 Planets in Dhanishta threaten high fever malaria, filaria, elephantiasis, high blood pressure, fracture, etc.
Planets in Sathabhisha cause poor digestion due to sedentary life. They suffer from constipation. Blood pressure, insomnia are also common ailments.
Planets in Poorvapathrapada produce dropsy, irregularity of the circulative system elephantiasis, eczema, skin trouble due to poor circulation of the blood, ulcerated gums, mottled enamel, etc.
Bhadhaka-Sthana to fixed signs is the 9th sign counted from it. Hence Libra is the 9th sign to 
 Aquarius. Venus rules the 9th house. So he is a 
 Bhadhaka-Sthana Adhipathi. As Venus is a benefic by nature and benefic owning the houses 1, 4, 7 or 10 are termed as Kendhra-adhipathi and considered to be evil as they affect one's longevity, Venus becomes a malefic as regards longevity alone to 
 Aquarians.
Lords of 2 and 7 are maraka sthana adhipathis. 
 Hence Jupiter and Sun are the owners of 2 and 6 houses respectively.
Therefore Moon, as lord of 6, causes disease during its period and the common ailment for 
 Aquarians is indicated by Moon. One will recover from
these diseases. But that which will be caused by 
 Jupiter, Sun, Mercury (as lord of 8) and Venus in their conjoined period or sub period will be fatal. 
 According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, planets in 
 Uthrapalguni, Visaka and Poorvashada will affect the health of the native.

Finance and fortune : Generally Aquarians make money through modern machineries, inventions and discoveries. They do not believe in earning money then and there for the work done. But they may remain for a long period, be patiently working and after finding out some development and novel ones, they will make money after using talent. Never will they seek for honour, but becomes to them Money, they consider, is needed for the worldly life. They are neither economical nor liberal nor extravagant. They have the talent and also ambition. They are both fortunate and unfortunate.
Jupiter which governs the second house indicates that one can be a scientist ; one may in the administrative department of a large industry or may be the director of public limited companies, or may be a lecturer, a metaphysician, or psychologist or astrologer or may be working in legal, finance, education or religious endowment boards. One may be a contractor of mine ores or deal in shipping and export.
Moon, lord of 6, indicates that one may have the practice of medicine, social service, shipping, may be a sailor, submarine, pumpsets dealer, kerosene dealer, export and import businessman or may be dealing in any liquid.
Mars, the lord of 10, shows that one may deal in metals, insurance, chemicals, mechanical engineering, building construction, mine ores, may be a brick kiln owner, boiler manufacturer, cement dealer, surveyor, surgeon who does post-mortem, murderer, butcher, barber, dealer in lead, copper and steel, or ee 
 C.I.D. Officers.
Mercury, forming good aspect with the cusps, 2 or 6 or 10, produces book-sellers, printers, accountants, registrars, interpreters, postmen, experts in handwriting and thumb-impression, C.I. D. 
 Inspectors, astronomers, astrologers etc.
Venus forming good aspect with the cusps, 2 or 6 or 10 shows that one may be a poet or painter or a musician, one may deal in hats, shoes, purses, handbags or chowries. One may be a harber or dealer in blades, dealer in medicines for the cure of eczema, skin disease or birth control and deal in selling the goods for contraceptive practice. Very old stuff especially wine, will be dealt with if Venus occupies meridian. One will prosper as a social worker or an internal decorative artist.
Uranus, forming harmonious aspect with the cusps 2, 6 or 10 or planets in these houses, indicates that one may be a research scholar or may work in 
 Research Institutes, or railways, public service, may be a mechanic, technician in the electricity department, wireless stations or electronics, salesman, traveller, astrologer, engineer or dealer in electrical goods.
Neptune shows that one may work in submarine, mine, secret service, intelligence department, may be a fifth columnist, seaman, Captain of a ship, salt dealer, etc.

Domestic environments : As Aquarians are very social, they keep the home clean and tidy so that they can entertain friends frequently. The home will be well furnished. They may be a collection of antiques, arranged in modern fashion. Aquarians never hesitate to purchase ultra modern electric appliances for the convenience of the workers at home. It gives a pleasure to possess them yet more pleasure is enjoyed by demonstrating them to the visitors. They give up the traditional and old cumbersome, troublesome methods - but they adopt all modern ones to save time and trouble. There is quality in Aquarius only in this respect ; that is they prefer solitude and also society,
 These people are more dutiful to their relatives. Neither they are very much attached nor detached.
Friends and benefactors : Aquarius is the 11th sign of the Zodiac. The 11th house to Aquarius is governed by Jupiter. HenceAquarians are always lively with good humour, high spirits and cheer. They want many friends. Jupiter gives them most reliable, true, sincere and good friends. With some of them the 
 Aquarians will be somewhat reserved. Such friends may mistake that Aquarians appear to be unapproachable and cold. But Aquarians do not find fault with others ; they take everything easy even when they are not properly treated. Aquarians are good partners in business and harmonious husbands contributing for happy life. They have great desire to
study the character and behaviour of their friends. They are very true to their friends even though a few of them may either be selfish or cheats. They realise that too much of intimacy will lead to contempt. Therefore they are mostly quiet and unassuming which will help to gain a large number of friends and make the home life pleasant.
Romance and Marriage : As Aquarians are intelligent, they always prefer educated and equally intelligent partner. As they have strong attachment and also permanent one, and as they-are unassuming, they do not have loss over the partner.
They move with all very freely but yet they prefer those who are equally social, shrewd and studious. 
 Slowly and without assigning any reason, they will discontinue the friendship and love with one if the person does not come up to the standard they expect.
They do not give expression to their love. If the lovers are passionate, they will not be satisfied as 
 Aquarians may appear to be cold. Rather, they will be so mistaken.
Houses 2, 7 and 11 indicate partner in life. Hence the partners will be governed by Jupiter or Sun.
Therefore the partners will be law abiding, true honest and sincere. They are magnanimous and noble. 
 They are dutiful.
Butthose, marrying Aquarians, find that these people are very human, kind, sympathetic and accommodative. There are generous and gracious. 
 They care for harmony and happiness.
The Aquarian wives are unconventional. If they find that the partners are not measuring up to their desired standards they never hesitate to satisfy themselves by changing the partners, But on the other hand, If the partner can satisfy them, they will co- operate most willingly with the husband's, share their responsibilities, duties and work. They will assist the husband in his work also.
Hence Gemini and Libra-borns are best suited to Aquarians. The partners should know that the drawback of Aquarians in marriage is their .impersonality. They may appear as though they lack interest to such wives who are selfish and who expect the husband to pay all attention to them and spend all the time with them. How will it be possible for intelligent people who ever think and think and carry research on science, etc?

Children : The Aquarians do not pose that they are aged they should be respected, they should behave like a strict teacher, etc. But they treat the children as though they are grown-up individuals. What is the result? Children not only have:the greatest affection, but also pay more respect to the parents. The Children are given training in intelligent and novel methods which contribute to their courage and confidence. Aquarians have a store of stories and by narrating them to their children coping with the childish ways, they educate them. They encourage the children to give their ideas and encourage their aptitudes hobby, etc. By so doing, the Aquarians judge their children : tell them what is good and what is bad. They rectify them and make them versatile, active and clever.
Houses 2, 5, 11 denote children. Therefore 
 Jupiter and Mercury are the significators. It is evident that they will be journalists information officers, mathematicians, propagandists, etc.
Lucky days : Thursday, Fridays, Tuesdays, and 
 Mondays are most fortunate days. Wednesdays and 
 Sundays are unfortunate days. Saturdays offer mixed results, mostly loss. Speculate on Tuesdays and 
 Thursdays. Compete with any on Tuesdays and 
 Mondays. Prefer Fridays for entering a college or going overseas.
Avoid Saturdays for purchases and investment. 
 Never speculate on Wednesdays and Sundays.
Lucky Colour : Yellow, red, white and cream are lucky colours.
Yellow colour indicates increase in income, satisfactory bank position, happy family life. 
 Red - Victory over enemies-reputation-success. 
 White - Good domestic environments, pleasure,
success in education-success in dealing with foreigners.
Cream - Overdraft facility, win in election, victory over enemies. 
 Avoid Orange - threatens opposition. 
 Avoid Green - loss in litigation, trouble, danger.
Avoid Blue - unexpected loss, treachery, etc.
Lucky numbers : 3,12, 21, 30, 48,57 and so on
9,18, 27, 36,45,54 " 2,11, 20, 38,47,56 " 7,16, 25, 34, 43,52 
 Avoid : 1,10, 28, 37, 46,55
4,13, 22, 31,40,58 " 5,14, 23, 32,41,50 " 8,17, 26, 35,44,53  "
Persons and objects indicated by Aquarius. 
 Dhanista constellation in Aquarius indicates devotees of Venkateswara, defence department, industry, wholesale business, dealers in metals, surgeons, automobile, charitable, rich and social persons.
Sathabhisha constellation indicates wool, fleece, silk, hessian, an electric appliances, dynamos, railway, bus, aquatic products, dealers in fish, hunter, washerman, distiller, snarer, fowler, etc.
Poorvapathrapada constellation ; ferry, bridge, hydroelectric power, robbers, cowherds, murderers, low class people, irreligious, unconventional people, able lawyers. Birth and death Registrar, lecturer.
Places indicated by Aquarius : Hilly and uneven places where streams flow, places near 
 Springs, the caves and the edge of the roofs, quarries, mines, of ores, any place recently excavated, trenches, » — tunnels, windows, places where radio sets, transistors,’ television sets, tape recorders, telephones, etc, are kept, ladders, stairways, etc.
Products indicated by Aquarius : Buckets, cups, ferries, bridges, automobiles, railways, bus, airplanes, gas, electric motors, dynamos, all electric equipment especially fan, radio, phone, etc, hydro- electric power house, garage, battery, wool, fleece, hair.
Countries and Cities : Arabia, Abyssinia, 
 Prussia, Red Russia, Circassia, Lithuvania, Poland, 
 Tartary, Sweden West Phalia, Ursbeck, Wallachia, 
 Piedmont, Azania, mainly Russia, Salisbury.

Places - Meena
Pisces is the 12th sign, the last sign of the zodiac. 
 It is also 36 in longitude. It extends from 330 from the 
 Vernal Equinox (the point of intersection of the celestial Equator and the Ecliptic where the commences - which is AMG to 360 and this sign is in the fag end of the zodiac. The 30th degree of 
 Pisces of the zero degree of Aries are one and the same point. Sun in its Northern Course, while passing » this sign, comes nearer and nearer to the celestial equator and.,is exactly on the celestial equator, when 
 Sun is in 30 Pisces.
The constellations contained in the sign are 
 Poorvapathra pada 4th quarter, Uthrapathrapada and 
 Revathi.
According to Sayana system, the Sun, nowadays, enters Pisces on or around 19th February and passes on to Aries on or around 21st March. Sun in the first week moves by one degree half minute, the mostly one degree till 7th March and then it moves
little less than a degree a day. In the horoscopes erected according to Sayana System-for people born in any of these dates Sun will be shown in Pisces. 
 But, the Nirayana zodiac being a fixed one, throughout this yuga, the Sun will enter Pisces-Meena on 12th March and leave this sign on 13th April any year All the 21/4 stars in this sign will be passed by 
 Sun in this period. For people born during this time of a year, the Sun will be shown in Pisces.
Pisces is governed by Jupiter. Before the discovery of the planet Neyiund, Westerners also allotted this sign to Jupiter. Now, they have given it to 
 Neptune, as the qualities of this sign and those of 
 Neptune mostly agree.
In this sign Venus gets exalted. Mercury gets debiliated. Saturn does not lose strength but becomes auspicious.
It is said by the Hindus that Venus and Jupiter are enemies. By that they mean that the qualities of 
 Jupiterians and Venusians will be different ; their thought, their action, their mode of life, thier company, society etc. will never agree. We should not literally take that Jupiter and Venus are enemies. Jupiterians are inclined towards spiritual life whereas Venusians are out to satisfy their animal instincts and will try to enjoy all the fruits of life in this world.
This sign is said to be a friendly one to Sun, Moon and Mars. To me, it appeals that Moon alone can have full advantage in this sign and Mars as well as Sun cannot be so strong in offering the results of the
houses they own. Why? Pisces is the 9th sign to 
 Cancer owned by Moon. So Moon will form trine aspect to its sign. But Mars will be weak in bestowing the results denoted by Aries, as it will be in the 12th house to Aries and Sun loses strength to offer the matters signified by Leo, as the owner will be in the 8th house to his own house.
Neptune, the God of the Ocean, will be strong in this sign. As pisces is the 12th sign of the Zodiac and since the 12th house denotes sea voyage and life in a foreign land, it is appropriate to allot this house of 
 Neptune.
Pisces is symbolised with two fishes. One will lead towards the north and the other towards the south and it is parallel to ecliptic.
This is called the sign of Moksha, Heaven, obtained by doing Dharma, i.e., one's duty, charity, etc. 
 It is said that Jesus fed with five leaves and two fishes. 
 This sign is a symbol of compassion also.
Pisces is a watery, cold, common, Ubaya, feminine, fruitful, psychic, emotional, bicorporal double-legged sign-on Southern hemisphere and is of short ascension.

Physical Features : Pisces generally produce short people. They will weigh as much as a tall person as they will be plumpy and the hands and feet will appear to be short and stout. The shoulders are muscular and spherical. The eyes will be big and protruding. But the hair will be soft and silk.

Characteristics : Pisces is a watery sign ruled by Jupiter, the chief governor for philosophy, and progeny. Hence the person will be philosophical, restless, ever dreamy, contemplating, imagining and never hesitating to lead a romantic life. He will be honest, outspoken, helpful and humane. He will not go into the cause of other's troubles, but he will lead his assistance at moment's call. Just like water which can put out the fire (no doubt depending on the proportion no also, the person born in Pisces will calm down the enemies, treat them courteously and forgive them. He will be unassuming and due to over-liberality and unbounded generosity, he cannot progress much. They hamper his advancement. He is a staunch "Ahimsa" observer. He cannot think of doing harm to any: not that be is incapable ; but he is so good a person depositing, in his bank, more of his meritorious deeds than the money which be can save by being economical. As it is a dual sign, he is a puzzle to others and to himself. One can find contradictions in his nature.
 He cannot be steady. He is mostly sweet-tempered and socially inclined.
.Being a feminine sign, he can be led away by fresh ideas and fancies. He will be polite and modest.
Venus, exalted herein, makes him a. poet, a musician or a painter or be can serve in a make-up room as he is a harmless person. So also, in worldly affairs, he can clearly understand the defects, difficulties and deficiency and plan in various ways to alleviate the sufferings of the people. He is best fitted to be in the Planning Commission.
Being a common and feminine sigh, the expression of his thoughts will be modified and even thoroughly changed depending upon the audience. 
 Pisces type of character is really difficult to cope with.
Being the 12th sign of the Zodiac, he will have the desire to study the occult science, the divine life. 
 He is timid and has no self-confidence. He will have the wish to go overseas and will be visiting foreign lands.
Mars, the lord of the second house, makes him extravagant. He earns more and spends much more money. He will be frank and fearless.
Venus as lord of the 3rd house gives him good neighbours and he develops his friendship by his generosity and great service to them.
Mercury indicates that he will be studious and be ever changing his residence.
Moon makes him more timid, dreamy and imaginative.
Sun shows that he has to necessarily take all precautionary measures whenever there is an epidemic and be will be a nervous type of person.
The one defect in Pisces is that they will rely upon all their friends and late in life they will realise that the world has produced both good and wicked people and he is also not an exception to fall a victim in the hands of the so-called Saturn and friends. 3, Wisdom comes late.

Characteristics to be corrected
(a) Do not worry as you are susceptible to varying moods.
(b) Do not belittle yourself. (c) Cultivate push. (d) Be generous but not over-liberal.
(e) Do not entertain hopes on other's promises.
(f)Do not be contemplating and dreaming always. 

Health : Being a watery sign, one will be addicted to drink and as this sign is opposite to
 Virgo, the persons born in Pisces will develop gastric troubles.
As the 12th house denotes ankle and foot, one will have affections of the ankles and feet.
As it is a watery sign and 12th sign, one may suffer from varicose veins or guinea worm.
Sun in Pisces : Perspiration of the feet, chillness, intestinal troubles due to lack of blood supply, and typhoid.
Moon : Drink, over-drugging the system. 
 Mars : Fracture in the foot, deformities, corns, plies, inflammation in the bowels and hernia. 
 Mercury: Generous nervous debility, deafness, tends to tuberculosis, cramps. 
 Jupiter : Feet swollen, perspiring, liver gets enlarged, tumours in the abdomen, intestines,
overworked, deficiency of enzymes, tumours 'in the ‘abdominal region.
Venus: Gout, intestinal tumours.
Saturn : Rheumatism, foot-drop, tuberculosis, dropsy, ben-ben.
Planets in Poorvapadrapada constellation shows abdominal tumour,- ‘enlarged liver, enzyme deficiency.
Planets in Revathi star cause deafness, general nervous debility, cramps, etc.

Finance and Fortune : Pisceans are really happy when their vocations include such nature of work which needs breadth of vision and scope of good action. Their main mode of life and desire are to be of help to others who need either health, or wealth knowledge. Therefore they are good nurses, caterers, welfare workers, teachers, accountants and bankers.
Since the 5th house - the house of pleasurable pursuits - is ruled by Moon who, by nature, gives such a hobby or desire according to the house which it owns, one will be interested in music, opera, cinema, etc., and also occult science.
The exaltation of Venus produces musicians, poets, actors etc. They cannot concentrate and do any detailed work. But if any arduous task is to be done, they are methodical, persevering, industrious, true, sincere and honest.
They have good business ability. They thrive better as Liasion Officer than as Managing Director or Chairman.
Jupiter owning both the Ascendant and the tenth house show that they can succeed as Ministers and 
 Physicians. The best business or service suited to them will be sailor in Navy, Captain of a Ship, shipping and clearing agents in the harbour, port-trust, custom house, dealers in drinks, oils, beverages, chemicals, motion-picture since it is a mute-sign) costumes, cosmetics, service in temples, churches, mutts, aquariums, submarines, isolation hospitals, asylums, sanatoriums, etc. Fishery, educational, shipping, financial and medical departments are shown. 
 Pieces people do not relish the idea of being dependent on their children in their old age. One need not elaborate the danger or being dependent. So, they want to invest (being the 12th sign of the zodiac owned by a benefic) so that the money is safe and is useful as they are ever conscious of approaching old age. 
 They will be helpful to others as they cannot refuse any request. Yet they lend to those who can repay on demand. In spite of that, Saturn, as lord of 11 and 12, threatens that a few friends-Saturnians, will be good friends till they receive the help and then disappoint the Pisces borns Never take' a Saturnian as your private-secretary as he will, on a later date, when you enter into Saturn sub period, cause you anxiety and loss of prestige honour and money. Who are 
 Saturnians? Those who are born either on 
 Saturdays or in Capricorn or Aquarius as Ascendant or in the star Pushyam, Anuradha and 
 Uthrapathrapada stars. He doubly careful with them.
Sun forming good aspect (as lord 6) shows permanent service in Government departments.
Mars, when favourable and strong makes them serve in Navy, Custom, Port Trust and oil fields. They have plurality of interest.
Jupiter as lord of 10 makes one a politician or philosopher or serve in any of the departments indicated by Jupiter and if allowed, to be business also.

Domestic Environments : These people generally welcome many friends. Why? Not to entertain them but the guests will patiently listen to the narration of the troubles of Pisces-borns, pity them and give them mental solace. Honestly, they can always invite astrologers who will be useful for such encouragement (7th house is ruled by Mercury for astrologer).
They are desirous of giving higher education to their children. They would also wish to have an educated partner in life. If she is not educated, they will try to educate the wives also.
They love happy domestic life. They are very affectionate at home. Throughout their married life, they do not get tired to carry out the romantic legend of lovers. One defect-as it appears to me and to many - is that they will be tempted with every pretty face and their fancies will be wandering. Most of those who: touch the sculptures of different figures in the temples and those who stand for sometime near the cloth shops where they have kept the figures of both the sexes, are those born in Pisces. It is due to 
 Moon, the lord of the 5th house. Every figure is a thrill for them. It supplies them enough food for imagination alone. 266
Friends and Benefactors : As these people are good by nature, kind by disposition and very helpful, they will have many friends. Further they have the personal magnetism which add more friends. But the friends will use the service of the Pisces-borns to the maximum extent as the latter are prepared to sacrifice, forget their personal problems and attend to the need of their friends. Being a watery sign, belonging to benevolent Jupiter, they are influenced by the surroundings and environments also, they worry themselves when their friends are in difficulties, and they enjoy when their good friends have fortune.
They are very sincere and true to their friends. 
 Even though familiarity may breed contempt, yet people will never feel the intimacy of the Pisces-borns as they are helpful and never treacherous.
But what about the friends of Pisces people? 
 Some are true and loyal and a few are outwardly honest but inwardly scoundrels cheats, low born, ill-bred selfish people with a narrow mind. Therefore Pisces-born should not confide everything to friends. People are betrayed and put into trouble by such few friends. Why? 12th house is evil. Aquarius-borns will receive help from Pisces-borns and at the same time gather confidential information from them during unguarded moments and use it as a weapon to bring-ill-repute and downfall to the Pisces-borns.
The author knows a case of Piscean who took an Aquarian as his friend. In spite of repeated warnings, he confided with the Aquarian all his matters. 
 The latter betrayed him which resulted in heavy loss of money, reputation, etc., and imprisonment.
Romance and marriage : Pisces people prefer the beauty of the partner, his or her intellectual pursuits, and fine arts. They do not want mean-minded partners. 
 But they forget that such qualifications of the partners lead them to be jealous of their partners and they look at them always with suspicion which slowly kills their love. The partners should understand this suspicious nature of the Pisces-horns and try to assure there at their sincere love to them, and flatter them to their satisfaction. The Pisces-horns will be ever dreaming about love and they will be delaying and postponing doing anything to develop it. They should not select any partner who is free with all. 
 Suspicion will keep the love in suspense. As Pisces is a dual sign, on some occasions they will not be warm but will be reluctant for some time whereas in other moments they admire, adore and be amorous and affectionate.
Look at the peculiarity of Pisces-borns. They are by nature kind, sympathetic and loyal. But thinking that they are wise by putting on a show, they are harsh, etc. They are classified as good people and also moody people.
Throughout their life they will be attracted to the romantic side.
If Mars, ruling the second house, is the strongest significator, the partner will be bold, brave and independent. If the Pisces-borns ill-treat the Martians type of partner, there can be no harmony at all. If Venus and Saturn form evil aspect, the married life will be short. It may end in a divorce, 268
If Mercury is the strongest significator, the partner is very clever like the faithful animals, they will keep silent when the master is angry and they will fondle when the master is jolly. So, the partners will be tactful and clever.
If Saturn is the strongest ruling planet, the Pisces- borns have to be a little careful and they have to correct themselves.
Otherwise the partner will share the joy of Pisces- borns and like the rat in the sinking ship, desert them when they are in difficulties.
The above statement applies to partners in business and friends also.
Pisces-borns can lead a happy life with 
 Virgo-borns and Cancer-borns.

Children : Jupiter, lord of Pisces, gets exalted in the 5th sign. Cancer, and the 5th house indicates the offspring. That is why, probably, Piscesians love and adore their children who also reciprocate. They are more like a mirror. The children will always return in the same coin. The Pisces-horns should not be strict with their children. Then they will reap the consequences. «
If children have not scored sufficient marks, if they are playful etc., they should be well advised and never threatened. Because they will teach their parents a lesson which is the dividend for their firm undesirable and unwise attitude. The children will be normally intelligent and successful in their lives, They will turn out to be good artists.
If Pisces-borns are not moody and suspicious, they are the good social workers and they lead a very happy and harmonious wedded life.
As houses 2, 5 and 11 Indicate children, mostly 
 Mars, Moon and Saturn rule these signs. Hence they will be rich business people dealing in mine products, metals, boilers, oils etc.
Lucky days : Thursdays, Tuesdays and 
 Sundays.
Mondays and Saturdays tempt and cause loss.
Wednesdays and Fridays are inauspicious to 
 Pisces-borns whereas they are beneficial to their partners or opponents.
For profession, reputation, etc., select 
 Thursdays. 
 For finance, higher studies and long journey prefer Tuesdays.
For competition, overdraft facility, never miss 
 Sundays.
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays are auspicious to make purchases for the partner.
Saturdays must be avoided for dispute, agreement, etc.
Lucky Colours : Red and yellow, rose and orange will prove to be fortunate.
Avoid blue, white, cream and green are good for partner Pisces- borns should not use them.
Coral mounted in gold ring may be used with advantage.
Lucky Numbers : 1, 4, 3, 9. Avoid 8.
Objects etc indicated by Pisces : Poorva- pathripada constellation denotes politicians, ministers, bank agents, travellers, tourists, advocates, professors, generous people, religious minded people, arbitrators, etc.
Uttrapathrapada refers to very rich persons, rulers, valuable dhanyam, corns, rishis, those who are charitable, who do penance and sacrifice.
Revathi constellation refers to pearls, conch- shell, lotus, fragrant or aquatic flowers; salt, perfumes, gems, business people, literates, journalists, accountants, auditors, bankers, electric thermal station, etc.
Places indicated by Pisces : Pond, ocean, fisheries, fish canneries, backwater, places inundated, damp and wet places, make up soil, oil fields, oil tanks, temples, harbour, asylum, sanatorium, places of segregation, isolation, jails, water-mills, old hermitage, wells, cisterns, etc.
Countries and Cities : South of Asia Minor, 
 Calpria, Portugal, Normandy, Fezzen, Egypt, Gallacla in Spain, Zara desert-Nubia, Ceylon.
Bournemouth, Grimsby, Christchurch, Farnham, 
 King's Lynn Lancaster, Alexandria Preston, Southport, 
 Compostella Regensbury, Ratisbon, Seville, Worms, 
 Chicago.
Products : Fisheries, breweries, rubber, submarine, diving operation, shipping, navigation, liquids.