Often people approach me and express their difficulties to the art of astrological predictions. One of them said, "Sir, there was always an ardent desire in me to learn astrology, I ) the opportunity to study the science regularly I earnestly worked night and day and tried to understand the principles. When I felt that
 I would be able to read the horoscopes, my friends ydue me some charts and asked me to offer my findings. Various ideas flashed in my mind. I found contradictory indications confusing and depressing ‘me. Finally, I made a sincere attempt to predict. I did not have much to.say but to mention a few words. On finding that the querist was not satisfied and continued to stay expecting me to predict something more I looked at him. He also looked at me with pity, Anyhow, I again tried to predict something more, but I was going on repeating what I had already said; such an embarassing situation discouraged me further. 
 The friends also dissuaded me by sarcastic smile. 
 So, I got vexed and I gave it up dejected. 
 A few years passed : again there was the urge to learn scientifically instead of committing to memory the rules and reproducing them like a parrot. Even then while studying, I came across certain portions which appeared to be just contrary to what is mentioned by another author. I did not 'find any improvement ; confusion continued and I was actually perplexed. I
thought that probably the science is a difficult, complicated and intricate one. Fortunately, I understand that you are bringing out a magazine rendering it simple clear and convincing which is the opinion of the readers.
Can you kindly tell me, Sir, whether I shall learn astrology and master it, so that I can be useful to others by offering predictions".
Astrology is no doubt, mysterious and abstruse. It deals with the relation of the Planets in, the Heavens and the occurences on the Earth.

(1) The students of astrology have to acquire sufficient, knowledge in astronomy.
(2) They have to be good to elementary mathematics. They can't afford to commit any mistake in their calculations.
(3) | They should be capable of preparing the horoscopes accurately using the correct Ephemeris (Raphael's) or by using Drik almanacs alone. For 
 Ayanamsa they will find that which is published in this book is useful and correct.
(4) They have to study various books on astrology published by scholars and also the original ones propounded by our sages.
(5) They have to think, think and think, analyse, understand the spirit of the rules and apply. They will come to the decision that the stellar astrology is the best, most simple and astoundingly accurate.
(6) Fulfilled and unfulfilled predictions are to be recorded.
(7) When a prediction comes true by adopting certain principles, one has to follow the same.
(8) Also one is to find out what modification is needed for such a method which failed. One need not be discouraged by failures to start with. No child can run a race without falling down many a time while attempting to walk in infancy. No cyclist by himself learnt cycling without any scratches and bruises on his body. If any experienced cyclist were to assist hint while learning he many avoid injuries. So also a Guru, by the side of the student who predicts will guide and correct him whenever necessary. This gives zeal to the student as he comes out successful.
(9) Study circles and astrological groups are to be formed, to discuss various problems and clear doubts.
(10) One has to predict after thoroughly understanding the querist's temperament. There are some who do not like to hear evil. Even in such cases, the astrologer should mention the evil but express it in a very mild form. Does not a physician give sugarcoated pills to the patient who dislikes bitter medicine. He gives the medicine all right; but does not allow him to feel the bitterness.- 

 The astrologer should not guess. But he should possess the power of correct judgement and interpretation. Be should have a good vocabulary and should use appropriate words. Intuition has to play its
part for which devotion to God, and prayers without any disturbance are needed. The astrologer should enjoy peace of mind and be above wants. He should have no worries at all. To be a leader among astrologers, one should be able to argue, convince and establish the correctness of his predictions.
It is for the public to certify whether one is an able astrologer or not ; whether one can offer astounding predictions or not. It is unbecoming of an astrologer to boast himself as an expert except on such occasions when it may be absolutely necessary to create faith in others and impress upon them what he wants to convey. An astrologer should not be over- confident; he should be calm' ; should apply correct principles, follow many methods, and give clear indications. He should not exaggerate facts etc ; otherwise be invites trouble later. He should never forget his limitations.
There was an astrologer named Mr.H. 
 Musgrove. He was born in Quebec, on 29-10-1869. 
 When he was 47 years old he predicted that be could correctly locate the place, where gold would be found in large quantities, by using his knowledge of astrology. 
 He persuaded many people to invest money in gold mining In British Columbia. All of them were anxiously expecting to come by the treasure. Unfortunately, the prediction failed miserably, due to the bad luck of the investors ; they were utterly disappointed. Ultimately the astrologer was imprisoned. 
 The astrologer should understand psychology: also. A lady was much worried for having issues at
minimum intervals and all of them were girls. Again she was in the family way. If an astrologer, simply to please her, were to say that she would have a boy, he runs double risk. Because, if again a girl is born to her, it is no wonder that the astrologer is not only abused by the party but also anti-propaganda will be carried on by a few of them in season and out of season as they are (1) disgusted and (2) disappointed. If the astrologer had told that she could expect a girl on this occasion also and If it is a boy in their joy the astrologer is excused. But if a girl is born as predicted, they will appreciate the science and wait for better luck at least next time.
Incorrect predictions bring ridicule to the science and also misfortune to the astrologer. One should be tactful also. It is advisable to predict correctly not forgetting one's future, or better confess and dispose of the querist saying that he has not specialised that particular branch of the science.
Can a medical expert undertake to treat patients suffering from all diseases. Can an Engineer be an expert in all the branches of Engineering? Similarly also, an astrologer can specialise In any aspect and be cannot master all the branches.
One can be an astrologer, If one's horoscope satisfies many of the following conditions. Uranus is traditionally (according to Westerners) the strongest planet to give knowledge in astrology. Hindus take 
 Mercury (Budha) as the planet which creates interest in astrology. In fact, all prominent astrologers have not had Uranus always strong in their horoscopes. But
it will be seen that Saturn and Mercury have much to do with astrology. (Have we not heard the usual proverb "Aye ! that fellow has Saturn In the tongue? 
 Vakkil Sani. Ever predicts evil and never he fails).
Mr. Carter warns those in whose charts Mercury and Jupiter are heavily afflicted to be very cautious when they forecast. From that, one can understand that 
 Mercury should not be afflicted, as it is the astrological planet. He also says that Uranus is unsuited to practical exigencies, as one will commonly lack tact and patience which are the essentials for an astrologer. One is to be practical. Earthy signs, and 
 Planets. Mars and Saturn make one useful and practical. Planets in airy signs may make one unpractical and dreamy. Fiery usually produce practical people but not always prudent or discreet people. 
 Those born in Thulam (Libra) and airy sign, may employ themselves in flattering others and often fall easy victims to It. Astrologers should not under any circumstances flatter others and exaggerate things.
People having a planet in Kumba or Meena (Aquarius and Pisces) afflicting Uranus in any part of the map will be unconventional, original and Bohemian. 
 They may disregard the established custom and ancient traditions and many may be perverted.

But people, having any of the following combinations and favourable aspects, can learn astrology and be useful to the querists.
1. Western scholars are of opinion that Saturn and Moon give immense appetite to learn astrology
especially when they are in 1, 3, 9 or 10th Bhava (Houses) Saturn and Moon make the native industrious. honest, patient, plodding any persevering all of which are essential to an astrologer.
2. Uranus has a special attraction to astrology. 
 But success or failure depends on the other aspects which Uranus receives. It may make one a research scholar or a perverted person with much of egoism whereas astrology is meant more to subdue egoism.
3. Good aspects and connection between 
 Jupiter, Mercury and Uranus assist one to consider deeply, judge properly and interpret correctly.
4. Mar's beneficial aspect to those planets gives the astrologer the argumentative faculty, the desire to succeed in the material field, and to lead in all pursuits. 5. Only when Moon and Mercury have harmonious aspects, one can have clear exposition, proper wording, good vocabulary and intuition. Moon is called the mind. It is like a mirror exactly reflecting the object. Mercury is for supreme intelligence, as it governs the central nervous system. It is like a lens. 
 Therefore whenever these two planets either form or receive favourable aspects they give high imagination, linguistic capability, keen observation, intuitive perception, quick grasp, retentive power, reproductive ability, fluency of speech and general success especially in astrology. So, those who have strong 
 Mercury will thoroughly analyse, properly apply and correctly predict.
6. Saturn and Mercury forming good aspect in one's chart give concentration and depth of thought. 
 The native will be exact, precise and methodical. He will be a good mathematician with competence on calculations. He will have much forethought, persistence and reasoning ability.
7. Venus conjoined with Uranus can give one the desire to learn astrology. A few may have titles conferred on them, if Venus and Uranus received good aspects from Saturn, Moon and Jupiter.
8. Good aspect to Jupiter from other planets removes worries and allows one to pray to God. One can have the divine grace and Intuition.
9. In Horasara, Prithuyasas says that the person at whose birth Moon occupies Cancer (Kataka) will be an astrologer. It does not mean that all Cancer borns will learn astrology or at least have faith in astrology. Here one is to combine the Western 
 System of prediction and find out the aspect that is being formed between the position of Moon at birth in 
 Cancer and that of Saturn, Mercury and Uranus in the chart. If Uranus were to form adverse aspects with 
 Moon, one will be perverted. If Mercury afflicts Moon, one will utter falsehood or whatever one tries to predict will not come true, especially when the period one runs, is governed by Moon and Mercury. Moon afflicted by Saturn does not allow one to concentrate nor will he have self-confidence but be diffident.
10. Vaidyanatha Dikshitha, in Jataka Parijatham, mentions that people born in the years Prabhava and
Kalayukthi will be proficient in astrology. Also those born in Sathayam or Sathabheeshaik Nakshatra and those born in Sakuna Karana will be astrologers. Here also, one is to take that all people born either in 
 Prabhava or Kalayukthi year or Sathabhishak Star or 
 Sakuna Karana, unless they have good aspects among Moon, Mercury, Saturn and Uranus, cannot learn astrology and predict correctly.
11. Mahadeva, In Jataka Tatva, has said that people having Venus and Mercury in the 2nd or the 3rd house or.
12. People having Mercury in 1, 4,5, 7, 9, 10 or 11th house or
13. People born in Gemini, having exalted Jupiter and
14. Those who have the lord of the second house in good strength will be good astrologers.
Even though in the majority of cases these rules will come true, yet, due to other evil aspects, a few may not have any desire to learn astrology and a few may even ridicule it due to the affliction.
Often wise people say,
"Gathanu Gathiko Lokaha 
 Na Lokaha Pararharthikaha"
By that, they mean that one should not blindly follow the rules expounded but take pains to find out the truth and understand their Spirit. This is strictly followed by the author.
Therefore it is necessary for one to take all these into consideration to find out whether the planetary. aspects are beneficial to learn astrology and then decide who can make the best use of it by consulting learned and wise astrologers. 
 Editing and predicting are different. Prediction is the real problem. Editing is not difficult. If Jupiter, 
 Mercury and Mars have favourable aspects one can edit and publish, because Jupiter's aspect to Mercury produces journalists who need command of language, a somewhat encyclopedic range of knowledge and deep knowledge of one particular subject. It is desirable to have a delicate touch on the pulse of the public. Jupiter assists in rendering the matter in the publication suited to the needs of the readers and makes it popular. If the editor keenly desires to impart information of an educative type. Mercury should be favourable and strong.
If Mercury and Mars form evil aspects, the editor will like to fight, if not in reality, yet in words. If both the planets occupy favourable signs, then the capacity for satire will be a useful asset to him. Mars forming good aspect with Mercury gives good humour and be fortunate to own a Press, as Mars indicates machinery and Mercury, paper, news, etc.
Guru's beneficial aspect increases the income, improves the standard, expand the business, increases the circulation and makes the book popular. 
 Saturn's aspect will restrict the activities and increase the debts. Further, there will be labour trouble or the release of the books will be unduly delayed and people
will get vexed and dejected. Neptune's evil aspect shows that every venture will be started in a flash which will soon end in a crash. 
 Lords of 2, 9 and 11 forming good aspects mutually among themselves and with the great benefic 
 Jupiter will offer the most desirable results to the astrologer and to the consultant.
