Tyothir Pandit HIRALAL SHARMA, Hon'y. Director,
 Sri Markandaya Astro-Culturai [nstitute, Ballahgarch, 
 Mandir P.O., Banjar, District Kulu (Himacbal Pradesh).
“When the Author visited im May 19697
Bow lucky we, the people of Himachal Pradesh, are to have the Darshanam of our Hon’bls Guruji, Sothida Mannan, 
 Jyothish Marthand Sri K.S. Krishnamurtiji during bis visit to our BANJAR valley tm conncetion with the “take-over” ceremony of cur Sri Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, 
 Ballahgarh- Mandir, Banjaz as the branch of Stellar Astrological 
 Research Institute, Madras-15, of which our Gornji in the
Founder aod President. Indeed, we are fortuaate, aa Sri
 Krishnamurtiji responded promptly to the request made by the mewhers of our Institute and otber well-wishers in Himachal 
 Pradesh to visit Banjar during ‘Banjar Fair’ whereby a large number of peopie would enjoy the benefit of his visit.
As per the scheduled programme, our Guroji reached Banjar oo (4—5—69 at 10-45 A.M.IS.T. He was profusely garlanded by the members of the Institate at the entrance of our sub- office. We had brief balt in our sub-office and during the jolly chat over the cup Guroji lucidly explained as to how we were destined to have the Darshan of Lord Uchchista Mahaganapathy whow he brought with bim and the Darshan of Guruji, omly at this moment telling the importance, of the ruling planeta at the moment. We all were wonderstruck for the analytical braia our 
 Guruji displayed. We consider him ag the learned son of 
 Goddess Saraswati—nao doubt at all, In the meanwhite many went up the bill to the maidan in front of the holy temple of God Markandayaji.
Then, we took Guruji to temple at Ballahgarh where at all the members of our Institute were eagerly awaiting Guruji’s arrival, Guruji by bis speedy steps, not minding the point he had to encounter while following the zig-zag rocky tract, steep up the bill, arrived at the destination, within 30 minutes, Seniormost members of the Fastitute presented bouquets ta welcome Guruji and then Guraji had the Darshan of God Sri Markandayaji and he offered prayers.
Then he was taken by the President of our Institute to the stage, apecially erected. Immediately after the chair was occupied by our Hon’ble Guest, President of our Institute made the welcome speech, the extract of which I give here-under:
Welcome Speech made by Shri Jagat Ram Sharma, 
 President, Sri Markandaya Astro- Cultural Institute.
“1 personally and on behalf of ali the members of Sri 
 Markandaya Astro-Cultural Institute, Ballahgarh, Mandir, welcome the scholar of our Mother India, our respected Guruji, 
 Jyothish Marthand Sri KS. Krishoamurtiji. He has grasped ali the fadiaa and Western Systems of Asteo-Science, Pinding
numerous Haws in these traditional ones, he devoted many yeara in research work and finally has succeeded io discovering an ualque formula of bis own to predict miraculously. His discovery goes under the title “Krishnamurti Padhdhatl’'—a moaomental work—appears to be humanly impossible. We call him the
 Varahmihirachary2 of our age. We pray that Lord Uchchista 
 Mahaganepathy may bestow upon him a long span of tife there- by enabliag him of further the cause of Astrology,

Goruji, to propagate the exact Astrological Principles and to invoke the cultural feelings among the masses and rivive the Jost cultural beritage of India is the objective behind the establlabment of our Astro-Cultural Tastitute that was instituted in May, 1963 A.D. Our institute bas 3 active Departments—
 Astronomical and Astrological Department headed by my grand- son—Jyothi Pandit Hira Lal Sharma; Cultural Department is headed by Swami Sita Ramji, Vedacharya,—Music Group is directed by Puran Chand Sharma, Radio-Singer. There are 41 members in our [ostitute. All are learned, industrious, gentle- bearted and trath-seekets, A few of them are Sanskrit Scholare who have mastered Traditional System. They had been serving the Tostitute and the public for the last * years.
We are extremely thankful to your Honour, Sir, for baving recognized our Institute and taken it as your branch Jn Himachal 
 Pradeah. We hope that in future our Garuji will visit our 
 Inctitute atleast once a year and bless us all,
In the end, I once again thank Sri. Krishnamortljl very much for having visited Banjar from Madras in South fnodin without considering the trouble he had taken during the slaky travel in the hilly tract for oearly 300 K.M.
Sarva Shanti! 
 Jai Sambasadasivam. 
 Introductory Speech made by Jothi Pandit Hira Lal Sharma, 
 Yony, Director of the Institute. “Respected Guruji’’, President of the fastitute and Gentlemen,
St is our pleasant privilege to welcome Jyothish Marihand 
 Sri K.S. Krishnamurti, Founder and President of Stellar 
 Astrological Research Instituto, Madras-15, and the visiting
Professor of Astrology uppolated by the Kulapatiji K.M. Munshi,
 Chancellor, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Bombay, Sri. Krishna- w:urtiji is the greatest scholar in the science of stars today. His is the master brain to discover Krishnamurti Padhdhati. Ho is our Revered Guruji and we all bow before him.
The sclence of stars is as old as the earth itself. It!s divided into two branches. (i} Astronomy desling with heavenly bodies aod (ii) Astrology recognising their effects upon terrestrial affatrs and is by for the most difficult and much-less understood ove. 
 Every Individual wishes to tear the veil of sa-called poknown future and 10 see what destiny has got in store for bim, This is rendered possible for him by Astrology, its edifice heing based upon. the Law of Karmas. Ancient savants of India and of 
 Western world had written huge volumes upon the subject. 
 Thousands of books have been handed down to us. But since then, much water has flowed down the Thames,
We are now living in the scientific age. We are travelling in spaceships and not in age-old bull-carts. These traditional text- books are found to be not useful for 20th century standard af buman race. These books are just glow-worms glowing at a moment and extinguishing at another not steering the course for a mano in darkness al! these being only for charm and 2dmiration.

Now the Aquarian age is fast approaching. But an aquarian star has risen Ia the Bast iin Indiaa Soil}. He is our Revered
 Gurufi Jyothish Marthand Sri K. S. Krishnamurti who has digested 
 Hindu and Western fiterature upon his subject, thoroughly. 
 Through bie vast experience extended to 4u years he found that the predictive principles coumerated in these books are general and they miserably failed, failed and failed. So most of the traditional astrologers have contributed sufficient to ridicule the fair name of Astrology—the science of sciences. But Guruji has laboured much to make Astrology as perfect a science as 
 Astronomy itself. By God's grace his 10 years of deep research born fruit and he bad devised an infallible formula to give 100% accurate predictions universally applicable to any type of © 
 Horoscope—-Natal/-Annual/Horary. This formula is popularly known as Krishuamurti Padhdha a real gem-stone among the stones,

Eminent personages of our Astro-Department with more than 25 years of experience to their credit in practically handling the horoscopes have been wise enough to discard traditional systeme of horoscopic delineations and have now switched on to 
 Krishnamurti Padbdhati. They bave found that the principles enunciated by Indian and Western Scholers are full of alternative and ambiguities and even if properly applied never pinpoint the palure and time of transpiration of any event in question. They agree with Gurujl. IF K. P_ is followed strictly, predictions are 100%, accurate, clients are convinced aod the Astrologer Is salishied with the service he has done. K. P. has restored the fair name of this celestial scicace and bas put it oo firm footing, 
 Defectors such as ‘likely, probably, etc. bringing discredit to the science have now mostly disappeared from the scene with the appearance of K.P. K.P. means ‘*Past is past and future is made 
 KNOWN”. We correctly declare K.P. as an Encyclopaedia of 
 Astro-Science. So we advice “Learn KP. You can win the world,”

Krishnamurti Padhdhati advises to follow only Raphael's
 Ephemeris with Krishnamurti Ayanamsa or Krishnamurti Ephe- meris (now published) ; Rapbael’s Tables of Houses, with these to erect to exact horoscope, Then note down the Lords of coastel- lations, ie., Nakshatram as per Vim-Dasa Lordships (only Dasa in Kaliyuga to fallow to find the time of events} toe nine planets and the cusps of 12 houses fall (Shri K.S.K, has divided for the first time in the history of Astrolagy—a coastellation span 13 degrees 20 minutes) into further 9 sub-divisions. Spans of these sub-divisions are in propertions to Dasa years allotted ta 9 planets as per Vim, Dasa, The planet to which a particular sub-division is allotted with in the 13°2U’ span of a constellation is called sub- lord of the sub-division),
Then follow predictive principles exhaustively explained in 
 K.P, Vols. T and Hand you will predict. Correctly only thea, you are a 100% accurate Astrologer. As per K.P. it is so simple to cast the chart; it is so easy to read; it is so accurate a predi- ction. There fs no magic; no yakshoi; no devil; but product of super human intelligence of our Guraji, Shri Krishnamurtiji.
We are very happy that Shri Krishoamurtijl has recognised
 Shri Markandaya Astro Cultural Institute as his braach Io 
 Himachal Pradesh and we are extremely thankful to his flonouc for having taken so muuch palns in coming to Banjar from Madras, 
 May Lord Ucheh{sta Mahaganapathi bless him with a long span of life.
T thack you all for your co-operation In making the function 3 grand success.

Then Guruji delivered hia tnaugutal speech. Photographs were taken, After baving luncheon, Guruji had been predictirg to sll the mass of people. Of them, there was an American.
Tn the night, cur Music Department arranged a cultural pro- gramme to welcome Guruji. Deep Astrological conversations were held till 12 midnight.
I vividly remember bow this American's, viz. Solamon’s disbelief in Astrology being an exact science was suddenly chang- ed into firm belief when be got letter from his wife on 24-5-69 afternoon as predicted by our Guruji on 16-5-69 at 8-00 P.M» 1.S,.T. at Banjar. Incidents continue to pour in to confirm K.P, but time and space don’t allow me ta narrate.)
On the following day Guruji had Dharshan of God Sringa 
 Rishlji (Rishya Stinga!, who usually comes on 15th May every year to Banjar from his Ashram—meditation place to inaugurate 3 day ‘Banjar Fair’.
Introduction about Sringa Rishiji was givea by Thakur Lai 
 Sivghiji Decpak, B.A., B.Ed., a senior member of the staff of 
 Goverament Model Higher Secondary School, Banjar.
“Sir,
Losd Sringa Rishiji Maharaj lived till he was young with his father Shri Bhabhandak Risbl in the thick forests of Central India, 
 Bhabaodak Rishi advised his son to go to ihe Himalayas to eo uofrequented place for deep meditation ; he asked him to be away from the disturbances so that he can acquire spiritual! uplift; 
 God Sringa Rishi obeyed his father, He selected a very beauti- fol calm, peaceful and pleasant place, viz. Skiran, in Himalayas at about 11,000 feet height noted for its agreeable atmosphere
aud majestic natural scenery, Tt is very near Banjar, only a mile off,

Dasaratha, tne King of Ayodhya was worried. He was anxious to have children. Considering bis advanced age, he lost every hope to be get any issue. He was advised by hia counsellors headed by Swami Vishwamitra, to perform a preat yagna voder the personal direction of Lord Sringa Rishiji.
 Dasasatha agreed to this proposal and Lord Sringa Rishiji was brought to Ayodhya by fairy tactics. Any how a great Yagna was performed and Lord Rama and bis brothers were born, Then he returned to hisjplace viz. Skiran and was absorbed agaln in deep penaoce Guruji, ft is that Lord Sringaji Maharaj whose 
 Dharshanam we are having today.
Indeediwe are fortunate today to have the blessings rrom two Maharishis—Lord Sringaji Maharaj and Rev. Krisbna- murtiji who wrote K.P.—a great Granthraj. May God give him success after success 1’’
Another meeting was held on 16-5-69 in the school campus of Government Model Higher Secondary School, Banzar, District 
 Kulu, Distinguished persons of the valleys and about 600 students af the school attended the meeting. Pandit Puran 
 Chandji, Radio Singer & S.E, P.O, Department of Community 
 Development gave the meladious musical recitation as Mangala- charaoam, Then the welcome speech was read by the Principal of the School. Extract is as follows :—

Shri O.P. Sud, M.A., 8.T. “Respected Guruji, Geallemen and dear Students !
1am extremely happy to-day to welcome Sbri K, S. Krishoa- murtiji only visiting Professor of Astrology in Iodia, on his visit to Banjar te inaugurate the affiliation of Sr: Markandaya Astro- 
 Cultural Institute to Stellar Astrological Research Institute, 
 Madras+15, He has pioneered the Stellar-Science and is the discoverer of Krishnamurti Padbdhati—a hall wark in the predi- ctive part of Astronomy to give accurate predictions, which are now being proved 100% correct, He has kindly agreed to deliver his valuable lectures to a large gathering assembled over here. 
 His lectures will surely evoke the students to learn Astrology
during their School and College career. He has proved beyond and daub: that Astrology is an exact sclence and a useful one for
 Hindus to be included in the school curriculum, The Sclence has been held in blgh esteem through the ages. J take this opportunity so request him to publish a serier of graded books, sulfable 7) the students of various categories in early understand- able larzuage especially in Hindi, which is spaken in Himachal 
 Pradesh und majority of States of india,
In the end, f again, thank Gurujl very much for the trouble he has so kindly taken to come to Bunjarc from Madras in Soath 
 India,
WHAT SHRI M. KITTUR SAYS! 
 THE NEW LIGHT OF JYOTISHYA
(Shri Kittur explains the system and the significance of 
 Shri K.S. Krishaamucti in the blghest of the technicalities of the oew science. He spreads bis canvas wide and narrates the developments from the past to the present.)

This is in an age of explorations. All the realms of scleace arz being explored; space bas been conquered auclear encrgy bas been mastered, and the divine stellar regioa has also beco
 Explored. The credit of the stellar conquest goes to 
 K. 8. Krishnamurti.
Prior to the research of Krishnamurtl this divine subject of astrology was based on shaky foundations and had Jost ita divine grace, importance, and utility to mankind. It waa because of tbls science being handicd by quacks to carn theic living that it bost alt its divine grandeur. Ueder such circumstances, this ‘Jyotishya 
 Shastra’ lost its ‘Light’ (jyots) and became the object of ridicule and despise. Srt Krishnamurti, restored the lost light to this science and made it perfect agsin. The science which only had the privitege of “Pancha Bhiuvati paocha oa Bhavati’’isoow ona strong foundation known as “Krisboamurti Padhdhati.” Sri 
 Krishnamurti, after continuous research of over period of 3 decades has evolved his own system. which enables an astrologer to give meticulously correct predictions. Sri Krishnamurti saya that those who esl astrology a science of tendencies and proba- bilitles are not astrologers at all, Thete is mo place for uncestainvies in Krishoamurti Padhdhati.

This research has not been any easy task to Sri Krishnamurti. 
 Ip the beginning his predictions too failed, Being bestowed with an inquisitive mind, he carried on his researc:, untoindful of the difficulties that came in his way. His convulsive efforts bore him fruit, when he discovered thut deciding factor Hls!‘SUB’ gives a definite clue and surprisingly accurate prediction.
One may ask what is the ‘SUB’ which it plays such a pre- dominant role in this system? The ‘SUB’ is one of the nine divisions of a constellation, divided in the order and the proportion of Vimshottari dasa system, Traditional astrologers make use of constellations only ia fixing the balance of Dasa at the time of birth whereas Sri Krishnamurti uses the constellations and the sub to offer predictions, of twits which are born with 4 differ- ence of few minutes. In cases of both planetary positions remain the same and in such horoscopes traditional astrologers should predict allke ia hotn cases. But actually both persons lead altogether different Hves. It is Krishnamurti’s ‘SUB’ (bat would decide even the minute difference and belps In giving carrect predictions for both the twins.
Many traditional astrologers after being convinced about the truth and utility of bis system, switched on to bis method, cast- ing away the traditional method which has no definite principles. 
 Krishnamurti’s system has definite principles which are univer- sally applicable.
People within asd ont swe badia are very much eager to nave darshana of this scholar. We, the citizens of Hubli-Dharwar the very much fortunzte to have this master minded genious amidst us and to jisten to his scholastic lectures oa his discoveries and techniques. It would not be an exaggeration if Sri Krishnamurti 
 Is called ‘Adhunk Varahamuhir’, May Lord Maha Ganapati bless 
 Prof. K.S. Krishnamurti with long life and opportunity to spread his knowledge.

WHAT SHRI V. K. SRINIVASAN, Ja SECRETARY, S.A.RTL 
 MANDANDAWELA, MATALE, CEYLON—SAYS!
{The trutha needed are exposed to the severals who required them. Shri. Srinivasan answers to certain doubts, comments and compliments sent to this Tastitute about 
 Shri Krishnamurti and Krishnamurti Padhdbati— Editor.)
Astrology a very ancient Science-preached and practised by our saints, sages and nobles, was a divine gift to us. [n course of time, when it had fallen into the hands of the unworthy aad incompetents, it lost its glory. Even truths were eclipsed and clouds of doubts spread in wilderness,
In' L961, certain traditional Astrologers threatcned that therc would be ‘destruction of world’ at large. This false propaganda increased the density of clouds of doubts and fear amoag the masses. At that time, a silent and salient scholar, born on 3-11-1908 at TANJORE, was compelled to come to lime light to expose the real truths of this noble Science. His vast experiences aod fruitful researches of three decades made him to uadertake long journeys 10 all parts of India, to alleviate the minds of fear and the ignorant rid off any misconception due to the configura- tion of the eight planets in Makara and ensure peace of mind ta 
 Billions in and out of India. His action thunderstruck several traditionals who thrived an falsehood aad ignorance of others, 
 Attacks and criticisms grew, Days, months and years passed away ; Planets too moved away from the sign of coofiguration but nothing happened to the world at large. :Masses understood the false propaganda and the texts of the traditionals, oot as the question of need but as the question of greed.
Shri Krishnamurti’s preachings and practices were en- hanced with more Vigour on receipt of Uchista Maha Ganapathy from Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Kamakotiin 1951. From this time, he started the transmission of the fruits of his research and knowledge, to the students of astrology who met him daily io the evenings, His services were admired by the learned who encouraged him to extend the benefits of his researches to ali, through “ASTROLOGY & ATHRISHTA”.

This man is no God «not even Brabma but an ordinary mortal.) Nor was he a saint or sage. This mortal with young spirit researched and released bis immortal astrological treaties through his grand work, KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATL. There are several hundreds of texts io the market; iaterpretation of same slokas, yogas and combinations by different authors ; bat bis few books have outweighed all others. Definitely his ability cannot be judged by any mortal, merely by counting the number of texts he released, as you caunot judge fishes as more precious than diamonds merely because they are pleuty in market,
This Gola Medalist and holder of the title JYOTISH MAR- 
 THAND, conferred by the then Governor of Bombay, His 
 Excellency Sbri Cherian, is simple in thought and JIving. His power to transform the starters into stars confirms the perfect- ness of his preiching in K.P. besides bis ability. Perhaps the greatest quality of this Jyotish Marthand K.S. Krishnamurti, perhaps his most noteworthy virtue is that be does not himself belong to that class of astrologers of “‘ifsand buts’*, “probables and possibilities’ and “chances and tendencies”.
Correspondunces reveal certain collaborations of the tradi- tlonal astrologers They who failed miserably in their system took shelter under K. P ; praised at the beginning and provoked at last The pangs of jealousy, envy and anger, which gnawed at thelr heart, did aot allow them ta study the truths-properly and master K.P. Theis failures become the failures of Science and thereby they faiied to sce the light of truth. As long as your heart is impure you cannot see the light of truth. When Sun is exactly over your bead, there will be no shadow. Similarly. when falth in K.P. is steady in heart, it should not cast any shadow of doubts in its principles asd predictions. Hence dive deeply into this sea and discover the might of the creator, There is no use in dipping near the shore and swearing that sea 1s shallow and has no pearls. Dive deep; you will secure your desire. It is certain.
Krishnamurti Padhdhati symbolises perfection of predictions and realisations. {it throws more Ilght on the trath of planets, correct interpretation of houses and correct casting of horoscopes, 
 Casting of horoscopes with the help of ruling planets is a novelty, nractised by him and his followers. Application of correct
ayanamsa 25d ruling planets (o pin-point events to the exact hour, minute and second are additional distinctlons to his tescarches and ability.
Being in Government Service, he had the opportunity to collect many hundreds of horoscopes of twins for researches, which resulted In the discovery of SUB theary which was not dawned to any ove; not even to the saints and sages. His interpretation of Nodes is the offerings of his practical experiences. 
 As innovator of the HORARY SYSTEM, his analysis, jadgements and conclusion are methodical, meticulous and marvellous.
On being given a number below 249, his ability to form a map of heaven mentally, analyse the planetary positions and strength, select the significators, eliminate the redundants, check up with the ruling planets, coming to candid judgement, proving with divine guidance and offering the fina! results within three minutes after giving prayers to UCHCHISTA MAHA GANA- 
 PATRY are thrilling memorable actions of this intellect.

When others struggle to rectify the birth time, he with great ease, fines the correct birth time up to the exact seconds with the guidance of ruling planets. Recently, his services were duly recognised in Malaysia, by conferring the title SOTHIDA .MANNAN and presentation of GOLD MEDAL. His prediction extended well in advance, during his visit in Malaysia, about the defeat of the so called ‘lion’ of Vaddukoddai seat by a newly entered ‘cat’ in the recent election held on 27—3—1970, proved to be the prediction of prefection, accuracy and realisation,
Giving meticulous and candid prediction is the crowning polnt in Krishnamurti Padhdhati. What ia the use of astrology ir correct predictions cannot be given after such laborious studies and researches? This is the main reason why astrology is ridiculded and condemued by a few due to the poor judgements and predictions given by the so called professors and doctors of this Science. At the same time, thia few should understand that 
 Science never fails but Scientists. Blame those Scientists whether doctors ot astrologera for their misadventures and not Medicines or Astrology. Shri Krishnamurti is neither a self styled professor nor a doctor as he was a Sanitary Inspector in Govern- ment Service and is a visiting Professor of Astrology at Bharatiya
Vidya Bhavan. It is pot the question of titles and savings 1 at that of the trve and sincere service to mankind,
Basic fundamentals are same whether it is traditional or not, as the structures of all human body are same but not their deeds. 
 Flour and sugar-the basic requirements of all sweets are same, but flour : ad sugar separately will cot fora sweets. Fundamentals from the saints and sages with the fruitful researches of Shri 
 Krishnamurti had resulted in the production of KRISHNA- 
 MUR1IPADHDHATI. § Today-Thursday Is commos to all, but it depends on how we make the best use of it.
Allocation of 6 years and 10 years to Sun and Mooa respectively in Vimshodhari dasa systecn is a fundamental dasa given to us by our ancients and it is ridiculous ta analyse as to why it was done so. Other than correctly applying the same for future predictions ; as two and two when added together given four, whether it ig Eastern or Western and there is no dispute about it. Certain fundamentals like dasa bukthi, anthra, rasi, ownership, planets, days, months, etc, are common to all and noue can claim them as their own.
Krishnamurti system is based on rational foundations and when tested brings more tribute to the Creator. Practical appli- cations of this system in daily life bring more confidence on the creator and do not give rise to any contention that planets do not compel but impel’. Faith on Creator will bring belief in Destiny and what is to happen without fail according to the Destiny or 
 Past Karma. Hence do not vacillate at, it will only fritter away your time, energy and efforts when in pitch darkuess, everything appears level but day reveals the hights aad hollows. is only ignorance speaks equality of theits to this KRISHNAMURTI 
 PADHDHATI. 
 How do you know that today is 19th Nov. 1970? Some person ot authority whom you trust or respect or inclined to follaw, said that today is 19th November 1970; that is all, This paper is white. “Why and How” cou'd not be answered by apy. Since one faits, it does not mean non-existence. Agree- ment and faith will help you to achieve your desire in this field through KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI.
GOODLUCK