The purpose of living is to discover the purpose of living.
 Our ancestors taught us that Astrology was one of the keys to the solution of thls enigma. The importance of Astrology was well stressed by Vaidyanatba Dikshita when he said in bis treatise ‘Jatakaparijata” that there is nothing in the world Ilke a horos- cope to help a man In the acquisition of wealth, to save him like a boat Ina sea of troubles and ta serve him as a guide in his journey, The science of Astrology was beld in such esteem io ancient India os to be recognized aw one of the Angas of the 
 Veda, though the term-‘JyothIsha Sastra’ as it was then known included both Astronomy and Astrology. As Dr. Ralph Waldo 
 Emerson wrote, “Astrology is Astronomy brought to earth and applied to the affairs of men.” Of what use is Astronomy to mankind unless it is interpreted in terms of our daily life and thought? Even well-known Astronomical authoritles have admitted that the manner in which the castern nations bad set forth to make elaborate and costly arrangements for continual observation of celestial phenomena was not latended to advance the cause of astronomy but to gain results of great asteological value, They built observatories in order that, 1a the long rub, @ trustworthy system of astrology could be deduced by them from the study of the motions of the heavenly bodies. { our own country, the subject was studied as part of the cusriculum io the ‘guru kulas’ though in recent times its study has been neglected,
Time is of the essence in Astrology as much as in any other aspect of life, Man cannot fulfil bis obligations in society with- out devising ways of recording the flow of time correctly, Phy- cists aré aware of the importance of time measurement to them. 
 An agriculturist should know the correct time of sowing and harvestlog. Religious festivals bave to pe chservedio time. And so the need for correct astronomical ephemeris of panchangas is abvious,
A panchang or almanacs 4 book of information relating tothe 
 Jongitudes, etc. of the Sun, tha Moon and the planets together with the related phenomena, It contains astronomical calculations and furnishes the thithis (the lunar day), Vara (the week day). 
 Nakshatra (the position of the Moon in Its orbit}, Yoga and 
 Karana. A panchang is to an Astrologer as finance is to a buaineseman.

Al present, a large number of almanacs appear in India every year from different parts of the country and in different languages.
 The makers of these panchangs follow the siddhanta that appeals to them, though Surya Siddhanta is the one widely followed. 
 During the period from 400 AD to 1200 AD, knowa as tbe perlod of Siddbanta Jyothisha, ea many as cightcen siddhantas were in application and these siddhantas perstst ia varying degrees in our panchangs even to this day. No wonder, therefore, these almanacs vary widely jo lhe positions of the planets and the time when a (hithi, naksbatrn, yoga and karana beginsoreads. Even here, the thme is stated in terms of ghatis and vighatis which were eaiployed when watches and clocks were uot available. Would it not be advisable now to changes over co the time measuremen’ {on hours and minutes which is in uoiversa!l ose rather thao con- fuse the reader by compelling nim to find out the time of Suryo- 
 Obaya in the locality, convert the ghatis aod vighatis into ¢equt- valent hours and minutes and then add it to the Suryodhayakala to arrive at the moment of beginolng or end, as the case may be, ofa thithi or nakshatra, No two almanacs agtce as to when the sun enters a particular rasi and when it leaves it aad enters the pext rasi or when the New Moon, Full Moon or Amavasya {Moon-Sun conjunction) occurs, While one panchang considers 8 certain time of a day beneficial for commencing a certain under- taking belong ruled by an auspicious yoga-according to it, the other panchangs differ, There is utter confusion in the pan- changs io such fun‘tamental matters like the beginniog of the yosr, the solar months and day, the lunar month and thithls. 
 There docs not seem to be any uniformily among the panchang makers even in regard to the dates when the religious Festivals are to be celebrated. The seasons have lost their traditional association with the months and very frequently festivals ag given io the panchangs fall in the wrong season. The consultant ia
naturally copfouaded and Is at a loss to know which panchang to follow. Can not al! almanacs ensure uniformity and follow the lead given by the National Caleodar and prepare their panchangs making use of the accurate data computed by the Nautical 
 Almanac Unit of the Government of India in accordance with the 
 Most up-to-date astronomical formulae and arrive at the 
 Nirayana positions of the planets by subtracting the Ayanamsa commonly in use? Such a step, | am sure, will go far in narro- wing the wide gap now existing among the almanacs.

There exist a set of people who are blind to reason and still follow and advocate the vakya system of calculations. The vakya system cawe into being when the calculations suggested by Arya- bhata to conform to the changes that had crept in the planetary motions since the time of Surva Siddbanta were found to bs
 Jengthy. To avoid this, certain astronomers like Varbrachi invented the Vakya method whereby readymade, calculated long- itudes for small cycles and great cycles were worked out and it was claimed that with the help of vakyas the planetary positions including the Moon can be calculated with the Facility.
Can we imagine two sets of heavenly bodies, one answering to the followers of vakya calculations and the other to those who adopt the ‘Drik’ system? impossible, It appears that the makers of vakya panchanga due to their ignorance or disiaclination to learo the present methods of calculation are simply claiming superiority on antiquity aad followlag.
We are all gifted with the faculty of reason and discrimi- nation and, if as a result af teat, we come to the conclusion that the ‘Drik’ method alene is correct we should let our reason prevail to the exclusion of all other factors. A wise man Is compared to the swan which knows how to separate milk combined wlth water. Our ancieats did expect us to revise the calculation from time to tlme so thet the results arrived at agree with che scientific and ocealar verifitation. According to them “Drik karanakya vibrenah, kbetas sthoolahas karmanam arbab.” That is to say, the positions of the planets found out by using a calculation inconsist with observational precession will only be approximate and rough and oot fit for religiouy observances.

They have also advised us to observe religious fonctions a. a time arrived at according to “Drik’ calculation alone “Mirtaham
 Samarikramya Chandalah Koti Janmasnv’. He who misses the day of anniversary of departed soul is sure to be penalised by births a crore of times. That they do not want us to commit any error in this respect, is thus amply clear.
“Drik” means ‘to see’. There is no such distinction in astronomical calculations as visible calculations like the eclipses and invisible calculations like the thithis for which inaccurate vakya -calculations could be followed as advocated by the followers of the Vakya system, Thithis are also visible as they are 12 degree distances between che Sun and the Moon and can be measured by astronomical instruments, and the same Sun and 
 Moon which cause eclipses cause thithis also. The simplest method to verify the accuracy or otherwise of any system is to observe the moment when an eclipse occurs or the moment when it is ‘New Moon or Full Moon and see whether it coincides with {be moment arrived at according to that system. The Drik system paases the test, while the Vakya system utterly fails, If the time of eclipse according to the vakya calculation is wrong, on the game analogy the beginning and ending moments of the thithis calculated according to that system should also be wrong. Are we still right in observing anniversaries of departed souls and performing other religious functions according to the inaccurate vakya thithis?
Thereis difference between the calculations, old and new: for, the elements of the planets and the data employed in the old methods have not been subjected to any change, while in the new method these have been rectified from time to time. While con- verting the mean position of the planct (madhya graha) to the true position (sputa graha), the old method employed only a small number of inequalities while the new system takes several inequalities iato account. In respect of the Moon, the maximum difference between the Vakys and Drik sysiems may work out to 17 ghatlkas of time (6 hours, 43 minutes) in thithi and naksbatra which are two important angas of the almanac, Sa alao the position of Mars and Mercury give vast disparity io the new system from those obtained according to the old method.
The Hindus fix the dates of festivals, anniversary, birth day and other ceremonies only on an astronomical basis, They do not observe the rule “‘Thirty days have September, April, June and November.” The birth days or the anniversaries are celebrated not on fixed dates of fixed months, but based upon thithis and nakshatras. As already said before, no religious practices should be observed at wrong moments. Even for 
 Astrology, the calculations must be accurate, In Uttara 
 Kalamrita, Kalidasa makes it very clear In Sloka 4 of Kanda J that the exact positions of the planets are to be calculated according to the Drik method. Mantreswara echoes the same sentiment whes he says in Phala Deepika “‘Ghathir Drik 
 Thulyathvam Ganitha Karanaithi’, that is the position of the planets coincident with observation should be used. We will do well to follow the Drik system for then we shall be wise, others otherwise.
When Westeners publish Ephemeris worked out by great astronomers of today who calculate correctly to jand in moon at a specified point at the schedule moment, I do not find why we should separately work and bring out almanace to erect dozen horoscopes to the same person. Simply use that Ephemeris where daily position of planets is given; this book is a self-instructor. 
 Let it serve all and let us sce that one person has only one horoscope.