PREFACE
“When there are many books on Astrology available In thia world. where is the necessity for this book?” mav be asked by any. Th{s question is taken up and the answer is the fntroductlon for this book.
Tn Tadia, there are many Sidhanthas and none of them geree with each other. Threefore the position of the planets calculated and obtained differ one from the other. Astrologers have to depend upon only these almanacs In India and cach prepares the horoscope and ultimately on two horoscopes agree, eventhough the time of birth given to the astrologer by the native remains the same. Then the native is confused and he or she does not know which of them js correct. Bach person bas a dozen different horoscopes for the same time of birth given hv htm to the astro- 
 Jogers al] over India, A few of the astrologers do not know how to erect a correct chart when the birth remains the same and the erection of the horoscope Is nothing but a mathematical calcula- tion The native must be given one and the same horoscope even though it Is worked out by many. A few do not know the need of the place of birth, that is to take the latitude and longitude of the place of birth,
Sripath! Padhdhati gives a good knowledge about voerlous calculations, When we go through the various records, there Is nothing to prove that Sripathi had studied the Western system also and then came to a decision to render his treatise. It is to be presumed that he knows only the traditional Indian System and accordingly he has published his book,
During their days, there was no occular instrument ; but in these days we have not only the occular instrument but also various other ones to formulate and bring out the Ephemeris which js vety correct. Therefore when correct ones are available, it Is not wise to use the almanacs fer casting a horoscope, What we want is a correct chart,
In India, the Indian authors ate following the original system. 
 Thelr works suggest that they do not want to Improve it, but to simply and blindly follow as Is advised in the traditional system. 
 There was no method to offer prediction, if the point rising io the east moves degree by degree, Such minute divisions can be
vill
mode but they have not dealt with elaborately giving the principle which can te used by astrologers. No doubt there are Atneas, but the another has pot handed down his theory, the rules and dicta co that the readers can offer prediction after going through the book, Minute Amsa division arc useful to-do postmortem and gatisfy one self and not for scientific prediction by one and all, Peovte will be happy to koow whether there ia one astrologer in the world who can predict usirg amaa Nadis in his or her life tine atleast on any one horoscope.
When Krishnamurtl Padbdhat! bas been discovered, it is found, absolutely necessary to cast 2 horoscope correct to degree snd minute. If any one were to erect a horoscope, posing the svatlabdle panchang he will have different position and such horescopea witl mislead and predictions also muat fail, But tf ore following my method, one must take only my Ayanamisa, 
 Krishnamurti Padbdhati offers both The nature of event and the time of event correctly. Readers should take only Krishnamurt! 
 Pachdhati Ayansmsa if they want to predict according to 
 Krishnamurti Padhdhati. It need mot be sald that other 
 Ayanmsas especially, widely varying oncs, will be useless if you want to follow K.P.
Theve decided to bring out the method to cast a horoscope aad I have titled it as the ‘First Reader’, This ls brought oat according to the suggestion offered by the acholara in Banjar— 
 Kola Valley—Himachal Pradesh a few years ago when I visited that place.
Noe doubt it will not be pleasant to change over from ‘the incorrect fo a correct one, only by such a few people who reapect the encients without thisking for a minute ; but they follow with olied faith alone. To read any book and to follow is ontireiy left to any indissdual. But to think, corcect and apply or use the correct one is i ft to the wiser students and scholars. Tam aura my beok will -erve the sbove purocose and Lam happy that io 4 eccade in Incit there will be atest lakhs of astrologers wr- cau erect the horoscopes of the consultants most accorateiy. 
 Even if bundiecs cast the same chart, all will be the sams;
My theuks are due to mapy of my studeaots who helped ao even yeure ago to bring out this book,